# Clean Text Extracted from: M03SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:09:16
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 03 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 3: Securing Access 4
=== Page 4 ===
Securing Access
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Securing Access module. This module reviews key security principles and concepts for securing
access to your cloud resources.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Securing Access
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the
objectives following:
• Describe the security principles in the AWS
Cloud.
• Explain the purpose of AWS Identity and Access
Management (IAM) users, groups, and roles.
• Explain how IAM policies determine
permissions in an AWS account.
This module reviews key concepts that are related to security in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. This
includes cloud security principles and the use of AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) users, groups,
roles, and policies to secure access to cloud resources.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Activity
• Security principles • Examining IAM Policies
• Authenticating and securing access Knowledge checks
• Authorizing users • Knowledge check
• Parts of an IAM policy • Sample exam question
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also participate in an activity to examine IAM policies and answer questions about the access that the
policies provide.
The module wraps up with a sample exam question and an online knowledge check that covers the presented
material.
The lab in this module is described on the next slide.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab
• Exploring AWS Identity and Access
Management (IAM)
This module includes the guided lab listed. Additional information about this lab is included in the student guide
where the lab takes place, and detailed instructions are provided in the lab environment.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud • I need to apply security best practices
architect: when I grant access to cloud resources so
that I can minimize the risk of unwanted
access at each layer of an architecture.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to secure access to your
cloud resources. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module. Remember that the
cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario in the course as an example business
need, and think about how you would address these needs.
=== Page 10 ===
Security principles
Securing Access
This section reviews the following principles, which are important for securing your AWS architectures:
• Consider the AWS shared responsibility model when you determine how you need to apply security to your
cloud architectures.
• Use the security pillar of the Well-Architected Framework to identify the design principles that apply to your
architectures.
• Always apply the principle of least privilege when you secure your AWS resources.
=== Page 11 ===
AWS shared responsibility model
Customer data
Customer Platform, applications, identity and access management
Responsible for Operating system, network and firewall configurations
security
IN the cloud Client-side data encryption Server-side encryption (file Networking traffic
and data integrity, system and/or data) protection (encryption,
authentication integrity, identity)
AWS foundation services
AWS
Compute Storage Database Networking
Responsible for
security AWS Global Infrastructure
OF the cloud
Regions Availability Zones Edge locations
Image description:Shared responsibility model of customer and AWS responsibilities. The customer is
responsible for security inthe cloud. This includes customer data. Platform, applications, identity and access
management. Operating system, network and firewall configurations. Client-side data encryption and data
integrity, authentication. Server-side encryption of the file system and data. Networking traffic protection, to
include encryption, integrity, and identity. AWS is responsible for security ofthe cloud. This includes the AWS
foundation services for compute, storage, databases, and networking, and the AWS Global Infrastructure, which
includes Regions, Availability Zones, and Edge Locations. End description.
Security and compliance are shared responsibilities between AWS and our customers. AWS operates, manages,
and controls security ofthe cloud. This responsibility includes securing components, from the host operating
system and virtualization layer to the physical security of the facilities where services operate. AWS is
responsible for protecting the global infrastructure that runs all the services that are offered in the AWS Cloud.
This infrastructure is composed of the hardware, software, networking, and facilities that run AWS Cloud
services.
You assume responsibility and management inthe cloud. The security steps that you must take depend on the
services that you use and the complexity of your system. Customer responsibilities include selecting and
securing operating systems that run on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances, and securing
the applications that are launched on AWS resources. Customers must also select and handle the configuration
of security groups, firewalls, and networks. Customers are also responsible for managing accounts and their
data, including encryption options.
=== Page 12 ===
Security is a Well-Architected Framework pillar
helpful to open the website now to look at how the pillars are organized.
Security is one of the six pillars of the framework. The other pillars are operational excellence, reliability,
performance efficiency, cost optimization, and sustainability. The framework provides best practices and design
guidance across each pillar to help you make choices and review existing architectures.
You can use the AWS Well-Architected Tool to help you implement best practices that are part of the Well-
Architected Framework. The AWS WA Tool is a self-service tool that provides you with on-demand access to
current AWS best practices. These best practices can help you build solutions that meet the well-architected
security design principles as well as design principles that are associated with the other pillars.
Links to the AWS Well-Architected Framework site, and to an appendix of questions and best practices that can
help you follow the framework,are provided on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 13 ===
Design principles for the security pillar
Implement a strong Protect data in transit Apply security
identity foundation. and at rest. at all layers.
Keep people away Maintain Prepare for Automate security
from data. traceability. security events. best practices.
Your architecture will present a much stronger security presenceif you follow these design principles from the
security pillar of the Well-Architected Framework:
• Implement a strong identity foundation:Implement the principle of least privilege and enforce separation of
duties with appropriate authorization for each interaction with your AWS resources. Centralize identity
management, and aim to eliminate reliance on long-term, static credentials.
• Protect data in transit and at rest: Classify your data into sensitivity levels, and use mechanisms, such as
encryption, tokenization, and access control, where appropriate.
• Apply security at all layers:Apply a defense-in-depth approach with multiple security controls, and apply it
to all layers (for example, edge of network, virtual private cloud [VPC], load balancing, every instance and
compute service, operating system, application, and code).
• Keep people away from data:Use mechanisms and tools to reduce or eliminate the need for direct access or
manual processing of data. This reduces the risk of mishandling or modification and human error when
handling sensitive data.
• Maintaintraceability:Monitor, alert, and audit actions and changes to your environment in real time.
Integrate log and metric collection with systems to automatically investigate and take action.
• Prepare for security events:Prepare for an incident by having incident management and investigation
policies and processes that align to your organizational requirements. Run incident response simulations, and
use tools with automation to increase your speed for detection, investigation, and recovery.
• Automate security best practices:Automated software-based security mechanisms improve your ability to
securely scale more rapidly and cost-effectively. Create secure architectures, which includes implementing
controls that are defined and managed as code in version-controlled templates.
The security pillar of the Well-Architected Framework describes how to take advantage of cloud technologies to
protect data, systems, and assets in a way that can improve your security posture. For more information, see
the Security Pillar of the AWS Well-Architected Framework link on the content resources page of your online
course.
The next few slides review key aspects of the first two design principles.
=== Page 14 ===
User permissions to access resources
Part of implementing a strong identity foundation is using policies to grant or deny access to your AWS
resources, such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets. In this example, John can read, write,
and delete objects in S3 bucket 1. However, he can only read the objects in S3 bucket 2, and he is explicitly
denied access to a specific Amazon DynamoDB table.
=== Page 15 ===
Principle of least privilege
Best practices:
• Grant only the
permissions that are
required to perform a
task.
• Start with a minimum set
of permissions.
• Grant additional
permissions as necessary.
• Revoke unnecessary
permissions.
Image description:Diagram of John, an administrator user, receiving permissions from a policy. The policy
allows full access to S3 buckets 1 and 2. Mary, a marketing user, receives read-only access to S3 bucket 1 and is
explicitly denied access to S3 bucket 2 through policies. End description.
Another key aspect to implementing a strong identity foundation is to apply the principle of least privilege to
the permissions that you set. This means granting only the permissions that are needed to perform a task.
It’s more secure to start with a minimum set of permissions and grant additional permissions as needed. This
provides better security than starting with permissions that are too permissive and then trying to restrict them
later. To define the correct set of permissions, you must research what access is needed to accomplish a specific
task.
When you create access policies, determine what your users need to do, and then craft policies that allow them
to perform only those tasks. Similarly, create policies for individual resources that identify precisely who is
allowed to access the resource, and allow only the minimal permissions for those users. For example, perhaps
developers should be allowed to create EC2 instances in production environments but not to stop or terminate
the instances.
For more information, see the Apply Least-Privilege Permissions link on the content resources page of your
online course.
=== Page 16 ===
Use encryption
Protect data in transit by using a
cryptographic protocol
Image description:Diagram of protecting data in transit by using cryptographic protocol. TLS protects the data
as it moves to and from the client and cloud storage. End description.
In addition to limiting who has permissions to access data, you should prevent access to data through
encryption. This practice relates to the design principle of protecting data in transit and at rest.
Data in transit is data that is actively moving from one location to another, such as across the internet or
through a private network. To protect data in transit, you protect data while it's traveling from network to
network or being transferred from a local storage device to a cloud storage device. Wherever data is moving,
protection measures are critical because data is often considered less secure while in motion.
An example of protecting data in transit is encrypting pictures as they are uploaded to a cloud service. The
pictures don’t need to be encrypted; however, by using TLS, you can ensure the privacy of the transfer.
=== Page 17 ===
Protecting data at rest with client-side encryption
Client encrypts data
before it is sent
Client retrieves encrypted
data and decrypts it for
use
Image description:Diagram of client-side encryption. The client encrypts data before sending it. The encrypted
data is sent through a secure pipe from the client to cloud storage. The client retrieves encrypted data from
cloud storage and decrypts the data for use. End description.
Protecting data at rest means using encryption to protect data that is stored anywhere in your cloud solution.
Client-side encryption provides end-to-end protection for your object, in transit and at rest, from its source to
storage.
An example is encrypting data on a mobile device. Because mobile devices can be easily lost or stolen,
encryption will ensure that data is scrambled and isn’t accessible to unintended users.
=== Page 18 ===
Protecting data at rest with server-side encryption
Server encrypts data when it
is stored
Server decrypts data when it is
requested
Image description:Diagram of server-side encryption. Unencrypted data is sent through a secure pipe. The
server encrypts data when storing it and decrypts data when you request it. Data is returned to the client
through the secure pipe. End description.
With server-side encryption, data is encrypted before it’s stored.
Amazon S3 provides server-side encryption. The service encrypts your data at the object level as it writes the
data to disks in AWS data centers and decrypts the data when you access it.
An example is encryption of personal user data, such as a Social Security Number, that is stored in a cloud
database.
=== Page 19 ===
Key takeaways: • Security and compliance are shared
Security responsibilities between AWS and
customers.
principles
• The security pillar of the Well-Architected
Framework provides design principles to
architect secure solutions.
• The principle of least privilege is a key
part of implementing a strong identity
foundation.
• Another key security design principle is
protecting data at rest and in transit.
Encryption is one important mechanism
for protecting data.
These key takeaways summarize this section.
=== Page 20 ===
Authenticating and securing access
Securing Access
This section covers authentication and the importance of securing access.
=== Page 21 ===
Authentication and authorization
Authentication Authorization
Who is requesting access to the AWS After the requester has been
account and the resources in it? authenticated, what should they be
allowed to do?
• It’s important to establish the
identity of the requester through • Determine whether to allow or deny
credentials. the request.
• The requester could be a person or
an application.
With authentication, you can use the identity of requesters to control whocan use your AWS resources. With
authorization, you can also use access management to control whatresources requesters can use and in what
ways.
To understand the fundamental aspects of authentication and authorization, consider a banking analogy. Think
of a bank that allows their customers (users) to access their accounts online. Suppose that you are a bank
customer. You have money in a checking account at that bank, and you want to pay a bill online. Should any
random person be able to log in to your bank account and pay their bills with the money in your account? No, of
course not!
Before the bank allows you to access your checking account, the bank must ensure that the person accessing
the account is you. The bank wants to authenticatethat you are who you claim to be. They typically accomplish
this authentication by requiring you to enter your username and a password that is supposed to be known only
to you. For extra security, they might have configured multi-factor authentication (MFA). Thus, in addition to
typing in a password, you also must receive a code on your phone and enter that code on the bank’s website.
Now, suppose that you are successfully logged in to the bank website (authenticated). Can you pay your bill by
using the money in another customer'saccount? No, of course not! You don’t have the authorizationto access
accounts that don’t belong to you. However, you areauthorized to access the money in youraccount, and you
are authorized to pay bills by using yourmoney.
=== Page 22 ===
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)
•Controls individual and group access to your
AWS resources
•Integrates with other AWS services
•Provides federated identity management
•Supports multi-factor authentication (MFA)
IAM
•Allows granular permissions
AWS Identity and Access Management is also known as IAM. With this service, you can configure fine-grained
access control to AWS resources. You can use IAM to follow security best practices by granting unique security
credentials to users and groups. These credentials specify which AWS service APIs and resources the users and
groups can access. IAM is secure by default—users don’t have access to AWS resources until permissions are
explicitly granted.
IAM is integrated into most AWS services. You can define access controls from one place in the AWS
Management Console, and they will take effect throughout your AWS environment.
You can use IAM to grant your employees and applications access to the console and to AWS service APIs by
using your existing identity systems.AWS supports federation from corporate systems, such as Microsoft Active
Directory, and standards-based identity providers.
IAM also supports multi-factor authentication (MFA). If MFA is enabled and an IAM user attempts to log in, they
will be prompted for an authentication code. The authentication code is delivered to an MFA device, such as a
hardware or virtual device. For example, Google Authenticator is a virtual MFA device that runs as an
application on a user's smartphone.
You can create accounts that have permissions that are similar to the AWS account root user. However, a best
practice is to create administrative accounts that grant only the account permissions that are needed. Follow
the principle of least privilege. For example, ask yourself whether your database administrator (DBA) should be
able to provision EC2 instances. If the answer is no, then provision accounts accordingly.
=== Page 23 ===
IAM terminology
Term Definition
IAM resource User, group, role, policy and identity-provider objects stored in
IAM
IAM entity IAM resource objects that are used by AWS for authentication
(users and roles)
IAM identity IAM resource objects that can be authorized in policies to
perform actions and access resources (user, group, or role)
Principal Person or application that can sign in and make requests to AWS
The following terms are specific to IAM, and you will use them throughout this course:
• An IAM resource is the user, group, role, policy, or identity provider object that is stored in IAM. As with other
AWS services, you can add, edit, and remove resources from IAM.
• An IAM entity is the IAM resource object that AWS uses for authentication. Entities include IAM users and
roles. Through an IAM entity, you can be provided the ability to sign in to the console and make
programmatic requests to AWS services by using the APIs or AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI).
• An IAM identityis the IAM resource object that is used to identify and group. You can attach a policy to an
IAM identity. Identities include users, groups, and roles.
• A principalis a person or application that uses the AWS account root user, an IAM user, or an IAM role to
authenticate and make requests to AWS. Principals include assumed roles and federated users—external
identities that don’t have an AWS account.
=== Page 24 ===
Using IAM to control access to AWS resources
IAM user IAM group IAM role IAM policy
A person or A collection of IAM An identity that is The document
application that users who are used to grant a that defines which
can authenticate granted identical temporary set of resources can be
with an AWS authorization permissions to accessed and the
account make AWS service level of access to
requests each resource
You can use IAM to control access to your AWS resources. You achieve this access control by creating users,
groups, and roles. You can also enforce access control by attaching policiesto IAM entities.
For IAM, these terms are defined as follows:
• An IAM user is an entity that you create in AWS to represent a person or application that interacts with AWS
account services and resources. A user is given a permanent set of credentials, which stay with the user until
a forced rotation occurs.
• An IAM group is a collection of IAM users. You can use groups to grant the same set of permissions to
multiple users.
• An IAM role is similar to a user. It’s an AWS identity that you can attach permissions policies to. These policies
determine what the identity can and can’t do in AWS. However, a role doesn’t have long-term credentials
(such as a password or access keys) associated with it. Instead, when a person or application assumes a role,
they are provided with temporary security credentials for the role session.
• An IAM policy is a document that explicitly lists permissions. The policy can be attached to an IAM user,
group, role, or any combination of these resources.
=== Page 25 ===
IAM credentials for authentication
Action Credentials needed
Sign in to the AWS Management Username and password
Console
Run commands from the AWS AWS access key*
Command Line Interface (AWS CLI)
Make programmatic calls to AWS AWS access key*
*An AWS access key is a combination of an access key ID and a secret key.
When you interact with AWS you must provide AWS credentials. Two primary types of credentials are used for
authentication, and which credential type you use depends on how you access AWS:
• To authenticate from the console, you must sign in with your username and password.
• To authenticate through the AWS CLI, SDKs, or direct API calls, you must provide an AWS access key. The AWS
access key is the combination of an access key ID and a secret access key. You cannot use a username and
password to authenticate through these methods.
This is a very simplified introduction to using security credentials. For more information, see the AWS Security
Credentials link on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 26 ===
Best practices to secure access
• Follow the principle of least privilege.
• Enable Multifactor authentication (MFA).
• Require human users to access AWS by using temporary credentials.
• Rotate access keys for use cases that require long-term credentials.
• Use strong, complex passwords.
• Secure local credentials.
• Use AWS Organizations.
• Enable AWS CloudTrail.
• Protect the root user.
The following are some best practices for securing access:
• Follow the principle of least privilege:Assign users, groups, and roles with the minimum necessary
permissions to perform their tasks, and avoid providing unnecessary permissions.
• Enable MFA: MFA adds an extra layer of security for your root user by requiring a code that is generated by a
hardware or software token during sign-in.
• Require human users to access AWS by using temporary credentials: Instead of granting long-term
credentials to users, use an identity to provide federated access to AWS accounts by assuming IAM roles,
which provide temporary credentials. For centralized access management, use AWS IAM Identity Center to
manage access to your accounts and permissions within those accounts.
• Rotate access keys: for scenarios in which you need IAM users with programmatic access and long-term
credentials, use access key last used information to rotate and remove access keys regularly.
• Use strong, complex passwords: Ensure that the root user and IAM users have strong, unique passwords
that follow AWS password policy guidelines.
• Secure local credentials: Secure access keys, passwords, and MFA tokens by storing them in a secure
password manager or hardware tokens.
• Use AWS Organizations: Use Organizations to consolidate multiple AWS accounts to manage billing, access
control, and resources centrally.
• Enable AWS CloudTrail: By enabling CloudTrail, you can have a record of all the actions that are taken in an
account, which makes it easier to identify possible security risks and comply with auditing requirements.
• Protect the root user: When you first create an AWS account, you have a single sign-in identity that has
complete access to all AWS services and resources in the account. This is the root user, and it’s important to
minimize the risk of access through this account given its power. Limit the use of the root user and monitor
activity using CloudTrail logs, AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations, and console sign-in events for any
suspicious activity related to your root user.
By following these best practices, you can enhance the security of your account setup. For more details and a
complete list of current best practices, see the link titled Security best practices in IAM on the content
resources page of your online course.
=== Page 27 ===
Protecting the root user
• For daily tasks, create an administrative user in AWS IAM Identity
Center (successor to AWS Single Sign-On).
• Only use the root user for tasks that other users cannot perform.
Protect your root user credentials like you would protect your credit card number, or any other sensitive or
secret data.
Rather than using the root user to do day-to-day administrative tasks, create an administrative user with
permissions to perform most administrative tasks. If you use the AWS IAM Identity Center (successor to AWS
Single Sign-On) to create the administrative user, temporary rather than long term credentials are used. For
instructions, seethe AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide link on the content resources page of your online
course.
Only use the root user to perform those tasks that cannot be performed byany other user. For more
information, see the Tasks That Require Root User Credentials link on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 28 ===
Steps to set up an admin user
As the root user, create an admin user. Use the admin user for daily tasks.
Instead of using the root user to perform administrative tasks, follow these steps to create an administrator
(admin) user:
1. Log in as the root user, and set up MFA on the root user.
2. Create a new admin user, add MFA, and download the programmatic keys. In the example on the slide, John
is the admin user.
3. Log out as the root user.
4. Log in as the admin user (in this example, John).
5. Create user accounts. Each user has a separate policy with permissions. In the example on the slide, user
accounts are created for John, Ji, and Nikki.
For more information, see the Security Best Practices in IAM link on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 29 ===
Best practices: IAM users and groups
Assign IAM users to
IAM groups.
Attach IAM policies to
IAM groups.
Image description: Diagram of IAM policy 1 attached to an IAM group for sales users and IAM policy 2 attached
to a group of IT users. IAM users 1 and 2 are members of the IAM sales group and receive the permissions from
the policy that is attached to that group. IAM users 3, 4, and 5 are assigned to the IAM IT group and receive
different permissions through the policy that is attached to that group. End description.
You can attach an IAM policy to an IAM user, group, role, or any combination of these resources.
To configure long-term access, a best practice is to attach IAM policies to IAM groups, and then assign IAM
users to these IAM groups. An IAM user who is a member of an IAM group inherits the permissions that are
attached to that group. You can also attach IAM policies directly to an IAM user to further customize the access
that is granted through the group.
=== Page 30 ===
IAM roles
Characteristics Common use cases
• Provides temporary security credentials • Application that runs on Amazon
Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Isn’t uniquely associated with one person
• Cross-account access for an IAM user
• Can be assumed by a person, application,
or service • Mobile applications
• Is often used to delegate access
By using an IAM role, you can define a set of permissions for the resources that a user or service needs to
access. However, the permissions aren’t attached to an IAM user or group. Instead, the permissions are
attached to a role, and the user or service assumesthe role. When a user assumes a role, the user's prior
permissions are temporarily forgotten. AWS returns temporary security credentials that the user can then use
to make programmatic requests to AWS. When you use IAM roles, you don’t need to grant long-term security
credentials to each entity that requires access to a resource.
The following examples describe situations when you might need to use temporary security credentials:
• An IAM user in one AWS account needs temporary access to resources in another AWS account.
• User identities that were authenticated by a system outside of AWS (federated users) need to perform AWS
tasks and access your AWS resources. You don’t want to create and manage IAM users for people outside
your organization.
• A mobile app needs access to your AWS resources. You don’t want to store AWS credentials with the
application, where they can be difficult to rotate and users can potentially extract them.
• An application that runs on an EC2 instance needs access to AWS resources. You don’t want to store long-
term credentials locally.
When you need to provide an IAM user in another account or a federated user access to your AWS resources,
create an IAM role with temporary credentials instead of creating an IAM user in your account. Similarly, for an
application that runs on an EC2 instance and requires access to AWS resources, create an IAM role, add the role
to an instance profile, and attach the profile to the instance. The application can then programmatically assume
the role at runtime.
=== Page 31 ===
Three examples of using an IAM role
The diagram on this slide illustrates three uses cases of an IAM role:
• In the first use case, an IAM user in AWS account 1 needs temporary access to an application that runs on an
EC2 instance. You first create an IAM policy with the necessary permissions. You then create an IAM role and
attach the policy to the role. The IAM user can now assume the role and access the EC2 instance.
• In the second use case, an application that runs on an EC2 instance needs access to an S3 bucket. After you
create an IAM role with the necessary permissions, you add the role to an instance profile and attach the
profile to the instance. The application can then access the S3 bucket.
• In the third use case, an IAM user in AWS account 2 needs to access an S3 bucket in AWS account 1. You
create a cross-account IAM role in account 1 that defines account 2 as a trusted entity. An IAM user in
account 2 can then switch roles to the cross-account role and access the S3 bucket in account 1.
=== Page 32 ===
Key takeaways: • Use the IAM service to configure fine-
Authenticating and grained access control to AWS resources.
securing access
• The account root user has full access to all
AWS account resources. Don’t use the
root user for day-to-day interactions.
• A best practice is to attach IAM policies to
IAM groups and then assign IAM users to
these IAM groups.
• An IAM role provides temporary security
credentials. With a role, you can define a
set of permissions to access the resources
that a user or service needs.
These key takeaways summarize this section.
=== Page 33 ===
Authorizing users
Securing Access
This section covers authorizing users.
=== Page 34 ===
IAM policies and permissions
Use policies to fine-tune the permissions that Define permissions in IAM policy documents.
are granted to principals.
Two types of policies: • The document is formatted in JSON.
• Identity-based: Attach to an IAM user, • The policy defines which resources and
group, or role. operations are allowed or denied.
• Resource-based: Attach to an AWS • Follow the principle of least privilege.
resource.
A policy is an object that defines permissions for the identity or resource that it’s associated with. By using
policies, you can fine-tune permissions that are granted to principals. Examples of principals include IAM users,
IAM roles, and AWS services.
Two types of policies exist: identity-based policies and resource-based policies.The biggest difference is where
they are applied. Identity-basedpolicies are attached to an IAM user, group, or role and indicate what the user
is permitted to do. Resource-basedpolicies are attached to a resource and indicate what a specified user (or
group of users) is permitted to do with the resource.
Most policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents. AWS evaluates these policies when an IAM principal makes
a request. Permissions in the policies determine whether the request is allowed or denied.
A best practice is to follow the principle of least privilege, which was covered earlier in the module.
=== Page 35 ===
Determining permissions at the time of request
When IAMdetermines whether an action is allowed, the service first checks for the existence of any applicable
explicit denial policy. If anexplicit denial doesn’t exist, then IAM checks for any applicable explicit allow policy. If
an explicit deny or explicit allow policy doesn’t exist, IAM reverts to the default and denies access. This process
is referred to as an implicit deny. A user will be permitted to take the action only if the requested action is not
explicitly denied and is explicitly allowed.
The diagram on the slide shows the logic that AWS uses to evaluate IAM policies. AWS evaluates all applicable
policies and uses the following evaluation logic:
• By default, all requests are denied.
• An explicit allow overrides the default deny.
• An explicit deny overrides any explicit allow.
The order that the policies are evaluated in has no effect on the outcome of the evaluation. All policies are
evaluated, and the result is ​always​ that the request is either allowed or denied. Suppose that a conflict occurs
(one policy allows an ​action​ and another policy denies an ​action​). Then, the most restrictive policy (that is, the
policy that denies the ​action​) is applied.
When you develop IAM policies, it can be difficult to determine whether access to a resource will be granted to
an IAM entity. The IAM policy simulator is a helpful tool to test and troubleshoot IAM policies. For more
information, see the Testing IAM Policies with the IAM Policy Simulatorlink on the content resources page of
your online course.
=== Page 36 ===
Identity-based and resource-based policies
Identity-based Resource-based
(Attached to an IAM user, group, or role) (Attached to an AWS resource)
What does a particular identity have access to? Who has access to a particular resource?
Carlos Resource Read Write List Resource X User Read Write List
Resource X Allow Allow Allow Ana Allow Allow Allow
Akua Allow Allow Allow
Richard Resource Read Write List
Resource Y Allow N/A N/A Resource Y User Read Write List
Resource Z Allow N/A N/A Paulo Allow Allow Allow
Nikki Allow N/A N/A
Managers Resource Read Write List
Mateo N/A Allow Allow
Resource X N/A N/A Allow
Resource Y N/A N/A Allow
Resource Z N/A N/A Allow
Note:In the tables on the slide, N/A means not applicable because the policy doesn't specify permissions for
that particular action.
To reiterate, two types of IAM policies can grant permissions: identity-based policies and resource-based
policies. The difference between the two types is where they are applied, which depends on the type of access
that you're authorizing or restricting.
Identity-based policies are attached to an IAM user, group, or role. They indicate what that identity can do. For
example, you could grant a user the ability to access a DynamoDB table.
Resource-based policies are attached to a resource. They indicate what a specified user (or group of users) is
permitted to do with the resource. For example, you could use a resource-based policy to grant access to an S3
bucket or to grant cross-account access between two trusted AWS accounts.
For more information, see the Identity-Based Policies and Resource-Based Policieslink on the content resources
page of your online course.
=== Page 37 ===
Policies: Example 1
Identity-based Resource-based
(Attached to an user, group, or role) (Attached to an AWS resource)
Bucket X User Get Put List
Bob Resource Get Put List
Bob Allow Deny Allow
BucketX Allow Allow Allow
Bucket Y N/A N/A Allow
Bucket Y User Get Put List
Bob Allow N/A Allow
Can Bob GET, PUT, or LIST for bucket X?
The identity-based policy allows him to use the GET, PUT, and LIST APIs for bucket X. However, the resource-based policy
for bucket X allows him to use GET and LIST, but denies the ability to use PUT. This means that Bob cannot PUT objects
into bucket X, even though his identity-based policy allows it.
Note:In the tables on the slide, N/A means not applicable because the policy doesn't specify permissions for
that particular action.
Amazon S3 supports two types of access control mechanisms: identity-based (or user based) and resource-
based.
In the example on the slide, an IAM user named Bob has an identity-based policy attached. The policy allows
him to use the GET, PUT, and LIST APIs for S3 bucket X. However, the resource-based policy for bucket X allows
him to use GET and LIST, but denies the ability to use PUT. This means that Bob cannot PUT objects into bucket
X, even though his identity-based policy allows it.
=== Page 38 ===
Policies: Example 2
Identity-based Resource-based
(Attached to an user, group, or role) (Attached to an AWS resource)
Bucket X User Get Put List
Bob Resource Get Put List
Bob Allow Deny Allow
BucketX Allow Allow Allow
Bucket Y N/A N/A Allow
Bucket Y User Get Put List
Bob Allow N/A Allow
Can Bob GET or LIST for bucket Y?
The identity-based policy allows the LIST action but doesn’t explicitly allow or deny the GET and PUT actions on bucket Y.
The resource-based policy for bucket Y allows Bob to use GET and LIST, but doesn’t specify the PUT action. Therefore, Bob
can read objects from the bucket, even though his identity-based policy doesn't explicitly allow it.
Note:In the tables on the slide, N/A means not applicable because the policy doesn't specify permissions for
that particular action.
The example on this slide focuses on Bob’s permissions for bucket Y. Bob's identity-based policy allows the LIST
action. The policy doesn’t explicitly allow or deny the GET and PUT actions on bucket Y. The resource-based
policy for bucket Y allows Bob to use GET and LIST, but doesn’t specify the PUT action. Therefore, Bob can read
objects from the bucket, even though his identity-based policy doesn't explicitly allow it.
=== Page 39 ===
Key takeaways: • A policy defines permissions for the
Authorizing identity or resource that it’s associated
with.
users
• IAM provides two types of policies:
identity-based, which is attached to an
IAM principal, and resource-based, which
is attached to an AWS resource.
• Permissions in policies determine whether
a request is allowed or denied.
• By default, all requests are denied. An
explicit allow overrides the default deny;
an explicit deny overrides any explicit
allow.
These key takeaways summarize this section.
=== Page 40 ===
Parts of an IAM policy
Securing Access
This section focuses on the structure and elements of an IAM policy.
=== Page 41 ===
IAM policy document structure
Element Information
Version Version of the policy language that you want to use
Statement Defines what is allowed or denied based on conditions
Effect Allow or deny
Principal For a resource-based policy, the account, user, role, or federated user to allow or deny
access to.
For an identity-based policy, the principal is implied as the user or role that the policy
is attached to.
Action Action that is allowed or denied
Example: "Action": "s3:GetObject"
Resource Resource or resources that the action applies to
Example: "Resource": "arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:123456789012:queue1"
(ARN = AWS resource name)
Condition Conditions that must be met for the rule to apply
IAM policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents. Each statement includes information about a single
permission. If a policy includes multiple statements, AWS applies a logical ORacross the statements when
evaluating them.
The following are common elements that are found in an IAM policy document:
• Version: Specify the version of the policy language that you want to use.
• Statement: Use this main policy element as a container for the following elements. You can include more
than one statement in a policy:
• Effect: UseAlloworDenyto indicate whether the policy allows or denies access.
• Principal: If you create a resource-basedpolicy, you must indicate the account, user, role, or federated user
that you would like to allow or deny access to. If you are creating an IAM policy to attach to a user or role,
you cannot include this element. The principal is implied as the user or role that the policy is attached to.
• Action: Include a list of actions that the policy allows or denies.
• Resource: If you are creating an IAM policy to attach to a user or role, you must specify a list of resources to
which the actions apply. If you create a resource-based policy, this element is optional.
• Condition(optional):Specify the circumstances where the policy grants permissions.
=== Page 42 ===
Example: resource-based policy
"Version":"2012-10-17", Explicitly allow any (*) DynamoDB or S3 action on
"Statement":[{ the DynamoDB table course-notes, the S3 bucket
"Effect":"Allow", course-notes-web and any object in the S3 bucket
"Action":["dynamoDB:*","s3:*"
course-notes-mp3.
"Resource":[
"arn:aws:dynamodb:region:account-number-without-hyphens:table/course-notes",
"arn:aws:s3:::course-notes-web",
"arn:aws:s3:::course-notes-mp3/*"]
"Effect":"Deny", Deny any (*) DynamoDB or S3 action on tables or S3
"Action":["dynamodb:*","s3:*" buckets except for those listed under NotResource.
"NotResource":[
"arn:aws:dynamodb:region:account-number-without-hyphens:table/course-notes",
"arn:aws:s3:::course-notes-web",
"arn:aws:s3:::course-notes-mp3/*"]
The policy uses a combination of an explicit allow and an explicit deny to limit access within an AWS account.
The example IAM policy on this slide allows access only to the following resources:
• The DynamoDB table course-notes.
• The S3 buckets course-notes-web and course-notes-mp3.
The explicit deny ("Effect":"Deny") element uses the NotResourceelement to ensure that users cannot use any
other DynamoDB or S3 actions or resources, except those that are specified in the policy. This is the case even if
permissions have been granted in another policy. An explicit deny statement takes precedence over an allow
statement.
In its totality, this IAM policy allows access to specific DynamoDB and Amazon S3 resources. It then explicitly
denies access to any other DynamoDB or Amazon S3 resources in the account.
=== Page 43 ===
Example: Identity-based policy
"Version":"2012-10-17",
"Statement":[{
"Effect":"Allow", The Action element lists all the
"Action":[
actions that are allowed by the
"iam:*LoginProfile",
Effect: Allow.
"iam:*AccessKey*",
"iam:*SSHPublicKey*"
"Resource":[
"arn:aws:iam::account-id-without-hyphens:user/${aws:username}"
The Resource element lists the AWS
resources that the allowed actions
can be performed on.
After you apply an identity-based policy to a user, group, or role, the policy allows or denies the ability for the
entity to perform specific actions.
The slide shows an example of an identity-based policy. If this policy was attached to an IAM user, the user
would be able to perform the following actions:
• Create, delete, get, or update their own password by using IAM LoginProfile actions.
• Create, delete, list, or update their own access key by using IAM AccessKey actions.
• Create, delete, get, list, or update their own Secure Shell (SSH) keys by using IAM SSHPublicKey actions.
The actions in the policy include wildcards, which are indicated with an asterisk (*). This format provides a
convenient way to include a set of related actions. Notice that the policy gets the AWS username dynamically,
as defined in the Resourcekey.
=== Page 44 ===
Example: Cross-account, resource-based policy
Policy created by account A
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Statement": {
"Sid": "AccountBAccess1",
"Principal": {"AWS": "111122223333"}, Account number of Account B
"Effect": "Allow",
"Action": "s3:*",
"Resource": [ Allow account B to take any S3 action
"arn:aws:s3:::DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET, on the DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET.
"arn:aws:s3:::DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET/*
The slide provides an example of a resource-based policy that allows cross-account access. In this scenario,
account A created the resource-based policy. The policy grants account B access to perform anyAmazon S3 API
operation—which is indicated by the asterisk (*)—on the S3 bucket named DOC-EXAMPLE-BUCKET in account
This S3 bucket policy doesn’t specify any IAM users, groups, or roles. Instead, it specifies account B (AWS
account number 111122223333). Account B should create an IAM user policy to allow a user in account B to
access account A's bucket.
=== Page 45 ===
Activity: • IAM policy statements are presented on
Examining IAM the following 3 slides.
Policies • Answer the questions as they relate to
each IAM policy.
In this educator-led activity,you will review a few examples of IAM policies. For each policy, you will be asked
questions about what the policy allows you to do. Your educator will lead you in a discussion of each question
and reveal the correct answers one at a time.
=== Page 46 ===
Activity: IAM policy analysis (1 of 3)
Consider this IAM policy, and then answer the questions as they are presented.
{ 1.Which AWS service does this policy grant access to?
"Version":"2012-10-17",
"Statement":{ Answer:The IAM service.
"Effect":"Allow",
"Action":[ 2.Does the policy allow the user to create an IAM user, group,
"iam:Get*", policy, or role?
"iam:List*"
], Answer: No. Access is limited to getand listrequests. The policy
"Resource":"*" effectively grants read-only permissions.
} 3.What are at least three specific actions that the iam:Get* action
allows?
Answer: iam:Get* allows actions such as GetGroup, GetPolicy,
and GetRole.
Look at the example IAM policy. Your educator will ask a series of questions to assess whether you understand
what actions this policy will allow and deny. Use the link provided in the content resources page of your online
course to answer the question.
=== Page 47 ===
Activity: IAM policy analysis (2 of 3)
Consider this IAM policy, and then answer the questions as they are presented.
{ 1.Does the policy allow the user to terminate any EC2 instance at
"Version":"2012-10-17",
any time without conditions?
"Statement":[{
"Effect":"Allow", Answer:No. The policy allows the action but applies a condition.
"Action":"ec2:TerminateInstances",
"Resource":"*" 2.Does the policy allowthe user to terminate an EC2 instance from
}, anywhere?
"Effect":"Deny", Answer: No. The callmust come from one of the two IP address
"Action":"ec2:TerminateInstances", ranges that are specified in aws:SourceIp.
"Condition":{
"NotIpAddress":{ 3.If the user’s IP address is 192.0.2.243, could they terminate an
"aws:SourceIp":[ EC2 instance according to this policy?
"192.0.2.0/24",
"203.0.113.0/24" Answer: Yes, because the 192.0.2.0/24 IP address range includes
] addresses 192.0.2.0 through 192.0.2.255.
"Resource":"*"
...
Analyze this second example of an IAM policy. Your educator will ask a series of questions to assess whether
you understand what actions this policy will allow and deny.
For question 3, to calculate the range of a CIDR block, youcan use a CIDR to IPv4 Conversion toolresource
located in the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 48 ===
Activity: IAM policy analysis (3 of 3)
Consider this IAM policy, and then answer the questions as they are presented.
{ 1.What actions does the policy allow?
"Version":"2012-10-17",
"Statement":[{ Answer:It doesn’t allow any actions.The effect is to deny.
"Condition":{
"StringNotEquals":{ 2.If the policyalso included the following statement, what would
"ec2:InstanceType":[ be the impact?
"t2.micro",
"t2.small"]
"Effect": "Allow",
}, "Action": "ec2:*"
"Resource":"arn:aws:ec2:*:*:instance }
/*", Answer: The policy would allow full access to Amazon EC2.
"Action":[
However, the policy would only allow a user to launch or start
"ec2:RunInstances",
EC2 instances of type t2.micro or t2.small. The allow would be
"ec2:StartInstances"
independent of the deny statement with its conditions.
"Effect":"Deny"
3.If the policy included the statement from question 2, would the
user be able to terminate an m3.xlarge instance in the account?
} Answer: Yes. The policy would only deny running or starting a
t2.micro or t2.small instance.
Observe this example of an IAM policy. Your educator will ask a series of questions to assess whether you
understand what actions this policy will allow and deny.
=== Page 49 ===
Key takeaways: • IAM policies are stored as JSON
Parts of an IAM documents. Each statement includes
information about a single permission.
policy
• Key elements of an IAM policy statement
include the effect, action, and resources.
Together, these elements determine
policy permissions.
These key takeaways summarize this section.
=== Page 50 ===
Guided lab: Exploring AWS Identity
and Access Management (IAM)
(Exploring IAM lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 51 ===
Exploring IAM • In this lab, you perform the following
lab tasks: main tasks:
• Experiment with IAM policies
• Add users to IAM groups
• Use the IAM sign-in URL
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 52 ===
Debrief: Exploring IAM
• Where do you access the AWS Identity and Access Management
(IAM) service?
• What happens when a managed policy is updated?
Your instructor might review these questions with you, or you might review them on your own. Use this
opportunity to extend your thinking about the tasks that you performed during the lab.
=== Page 53 ===
Module wrap-up
Securing Access
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 54 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Describe the security principles in the AWS Cloud.
• Explain the purpose of IAM users, groups, and roles.
• Explain how IAM policies determine permissions in an AWS account.
This module reviewed key security concepts that are applicable across all parts of your cloud solutions.
=== Page 55 ===
Considerations for the cafe
• Discuss how you as a cloud architect might
advise the café based on the key cloud
architect concern presented at the start of
this module.
Use the cafe business as an example to apply what you’ve learned in this module to building a cloud
architecture. What types of access considerations might be needed for the café staff?
=== Page 56 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 57 ===
Sample exam question
A team of developers needs access to several services and resources in a virtual private cloud (VPC) for 9 months. Team
members are likely to change during the project. Which option fulfills this requirement and follows key security principles?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Team of developers likely to change
• Needs access for 9 months
• Follows key security principles
The question identifies the need for a team of developers to access resources for a specific duration. The fact
that they are a team of developers implies that the developers would need similar access to the resources. The
specified duration suggests that these users won’t require access after this period ends. The question also asks
that you think in terms of key security principles
=== Page 58 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
A team of developersneeds access to several services and resources in a virtual private cloud (VPC) for 9 months. Which option
fulfills this requirement and follows key security principles?
Choice Response
A Create a single IAM user for the developer team, and attach the required IAM policies to the user.
B Create an IAM user for each developer, and attach the required IAM policies to each user.
C Create an IAM user for each developer, put them all in an IAM group, and attach the required IAM policies to the group.
Create a single IAM user for the developer team, place it in an IAM group, and attach the required IAM policies to the
group.
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 59 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is C.
Choice Response
C Create an IAM user for each developer, put them all in an IAM group, and attach the required IAM policies to the group.
Choices A and D (creating a single shared IAM user for the team) shouldn’t be implemented. Having multiple
users share a single user account is generally a bad security practice. The password is shared by all users, and
you lose individual accountability for actions that are performed by the user account.
Choice B ( IAM users for each developer, and IAM policies attached to each user) will work but it is not the most
efficient option for managing a team, especially when it is likely that developers will be added or removed
during the project.
Choice C (putting users into a group, and attaching the policy to the group) is the best choice. Attaching a policy
to a group applies the same access rules to all members of the group. This method also automatically applies
the access rules to new users that are added to the group and removes those access rules from users that are
removed from the group.
=== Page 60 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.