# Clean Text Extracted from: M04SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:31:51
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 04 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 4: Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3 4
=== Page 4 ===
Adding a Storage Layer with
Amazon S3
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the following:
objectives
• Define Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
and how it works.
• Recognize the problems that Amazon S3 can solve.
• Describe how to move data to and from Amazon
S3.
• Manage the storage of content efficiently by using
Amazon S3.
• Recommend the appropriate use of Amazon S3
based on requirements.
• Configure a static website on Amazon S3.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing a storage layer with
Amazon S3.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demos
• Defining Amazon S3 • Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration
• Using Amazon S3 • Managing Lifecycles in Amazon S3
• Moving data to and from Amazon • Amazon S3 Versioning
Activity
• Storing content with Amazon S3
• Designing with Amazon S3
• Designing with Amazon S3
Knowledge checks
• Applying the AWS Well-Architected
• 10-question knowledge check
Framework principles to storage
• Sample exam question
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also participate in an activity on how to setup Amazon S3 for a particular use case.
Your instructor might also demonstrate the features listed. The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge
check delivered in the online course and a sample exam question to discuss in class.
The next slide describes the lab in this module.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on lab in this module
Challenge (Café) lab
• Creating a Static Website for the Café
This module includes the café lab listed. Additional information about this lab is included in the student guide
where the lab takes place, and the lab environment provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to consider access patterns and use
working with cases of the business so that I can choose
Amazon S3: Amazon S3 configuration options that
optimize cost while supporting
performance and compliance
requirements.
• I need to apply security best practices so
that the storage layer is protected against
unwanted access and accidental data loss.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module. Also remember that
the cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific
use case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an
example business need, and think about how you would use Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
storage for the café.
=== Page 10 ===
Defining Amazon S3
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section describes Amazon S3.
=== Page 11 ===
Types of storage
Block storage File storage Object storage
Data is stored on a Data is stored in a Data is stored as
device in fixed-sized hierarchical structure. objects based on
blocks. attributes and
metadata.
Storage comes in three basic types: block storage, file storage, and object storage. These types of storage each
have a particular use, and it is likely that you will work with all three types.
Block storage data is stored on a device in fixed-sized blocks. Applications and file systems regulate how blocks
are accessed, combined, and modified. Block storage breaks up data into blocks and then stores those blocks as
separate pieces, each with a unique identifier. These blocks are stored wherever it is most efficient. Thus, blocks
can be stored across different systems, and each block can be configured to work with different operating
systems.
File storage is a methodology that helps users, applications, and services access data in a shared file system.
Data is stored in a hierarchical structure. This structure is similar to a centralized shared network drive in a
company where employees store and access files.
Object storage files are stored as objects based on attributes and metadata. Each object consists of data,
metadata, and an object key. The metadata has information about the data (object size, object purpose, and
more), and the object key is the unique identifier of the object. When you update files in object storage, the
entire file object is updated instead of a piece of a file, as in block storage.
=== Page 12 ===
Amazon S3
• Amazon S3 stores massive (unlimited) amounts of
unstructured data.
• Amazon S3 stores data files as objects in a bucketthat
you define.
• Five TB is the maximum file size of a single object.
• Objects have a globally unique URL (universal
namespace).
Amazon S3
• Objects have a key, version ID, value, metadata, and sub-
resources.
• Amazon S3 is an object storage service. You can use it to store virtually unlimited amounts of data.
• Data files are stored as objects. You place objects in a bucket, which you define. Every bucket must have a
name that is globally unique across Regions, which means that the bucket name must be unique across all
AWS customer accounts.
• The objects that you store can vary in size from 0 bytes to 5 TB. Though individual objects cannot be larger
than 5 TB, you can store as much total data as you need.
• Objects have a globally unique URL (universal namespace).
Each object has five consistent characteristics:
• First, it has a key, which is the name that you assign to an object. You use the object key to retrieve the
object. In the AWS Management Console, you can create a directory inside a bucket and upload an object to
that directory. However, in reality, Amazon S3 does not know about directories, so the key value includes the
full path relative to the bucket root.
• Objects also include a version ID. In a bucket, a key and version ID uniquely identify an object. You will learn
more about versioning later in this module.
• The value of the object is the actual content that you store. It can be any sequence of bytes. Object values
are immutable, which means that after you upload an object, you cannot modify the value. If you want to
modify the object, you must make a change outside of Amazon S3 and then reupload the object.
• Objects also include metadata, which is a set of name-value pairs that you can use to store information about
the object. You can assign metadata, which is referred to as user-defined metadata, to your objects in
Amazon S3. Amazon S3 also assigns system metadata to these objects, which it uses for managing objects.
• Finally, Amazon S3 also uses sub-resources to store additional object-specific information.
For more information on Amazon S3 see the link provided on the course resources page.
=== Page 13 ===
Amazon S3 components
A bucket is a container for objects.
Each bucket has a unique name and a Region-specific endpoint in this format.
https://s3-<aws-region>.amazonaws.com/<bucket-name>/<object-key>
An object is a file and the metadata that describes that file.
Metadata is a set of name-value pairs that are assigned when the object is uploaded.
An object includes a key name (object-key) that uniquely identifies the object.
Remember, objects are placed in buckets. Here is some high-level information about the essential components
of Amazon S3:
• A bucket is a container for objects that are stored in Amazon S3. Buckets serve several purposes. They
organize the Amazon S3 namespace at the highest level, and they identify the account responsible for
storage and data transfer charges. They also play a role in access control, and they serve as the unit of
aggregation for usage reporting.
• An object is the fundamental entity that is stored in Amazon S3. An object can be any kind of file, such as
text, video, photo, or another binary format. Objects consist of object data and metadata. The metadata is a
set of name-value pairs that describe the object. For example, metadata includes a content type (such as an
image or video) that is included in the response header of a browser request so that browser knows how to
render the file.
• An object key uniquely identifies the object in a bucket. Each object in a bucket has exactly one key.
Each bucket is Regional. You can choose the AWS Region where Amazon S3 will store the buckets that you
create. Objects stored in an AWS Region never leave the Region unless you explicitly transfer them to another
Region. The Region code indicates the Region. For example, the Region code for a bucket that’s created in the
US Oregon Region isus-west-2.
See the link provided on the course resources page for more information on Amazon S3 concepts and how it
works.
=== Page 14 ===
Use prefixes to imply a folder structure in an S3 bucket
The following objects are in a bucket
named graphics-bucket.
photos/2022/catpiano.jpg A GETquerywith the prefix photos/2022returns
photos/2022/catonphone.jpg the following objects:
photos/2022/ninepuppies.png
photos/2021/lakefront.png graphics-bucket/photos/2022/catpiano.jpg
photos/2021/coveredbridge.png graphics-bucket/photos/2022/catonphone.jpg
photos/2021/openairmarket.jpg graphics-bucket/photos/2022/ninepuppies.png
video-source/9984.mp4
video-source/9918.mp4
video-source/18446.mp4
In Amazon S3, buckets and objects are the primary resources, and objects are stored in buckets. For
organizational simplicity, Amazon S3 supports the folder concept to group objects. Amazon S3 uses a shared
name prefix for objects (that is, objects that have names that begin with a common string). When you create a
folder, the Amazon S3 console creates an object with the name followed by a slash (/). The Amazon S3 console
then displays that object as a folder.
When an S3 bucket is queried, a prefix will limit results to only those objects that begin with that prefix. In the
example, the bucket contains objects that are photos organized by year. To retrieve 2022 photos, specify the
prefix photos/2022.
For more information, see the link titled “Organizing Objects Using Prefixes” in your course resources.
=== Page 15 ===
Amazon S3 benefits
Benefit Description
• Helps ensure that data is not lost
• Provides S3 Standard storage with 11 nines (or 99.999999999
Durability
percent) of durability
• Provides access to data when needed
• Includes unlimited capacity to store data
Availability • Provides S3 Standard storage with 4 nines (or 99.99 percent) of
availability
• Achieves thousands of transactions each second when uploading and
High retrieving storage
performance • Automatically scales to high request rates
This slide describes three key benefits of Amazon S3 for cloud storage.
First, it provides durability, which describes the average annual expected loss of objects. The term 11 nines of
durability means that every year, there is a 0.000000001 percent chance of losing an object. For example, if you
store 10,000 objects on Amazon S3, you can expect to incur a loss of a single object once every 10,000,000
years on average. Amazon S3 redundantly stores your objects on multiple devices across multiple facilities in
the Amazon S3 Region you designate. Amazon S3 is designed to sustain concurrent device failures by quickly
detecting and repairing any lost redundancy. Amazon S3 also regularly verifies the integrity of your data by using
checksums.
Amazon S3 also provides 4 nines (or 99.99 percent) of availability. Availability refers to your ability to access
your data quickly when you want it. It also provides a virtually unlimited capacity to store your data, so it is
scalable. Amazon S3 has robust securitysettings. It provides many ways to control access to the data that you
store and also gives you the ability to encrypt your data.
Finally, Amazon S3 is high performing. Your applications can achieve thousands of transactions per second when
uploading and retrieving storage from Amazon S3. Amazon S3 automatically scales to high request rates.
=== Page 16 ===
Key takeaways: • Storage comes in three basic types: block
Defining Amazon storage, file storage, and object storage.
S3 • Amazon S3 is an object storage service.
• Amazon S3 stores massive amounts of
unstructured data.
• A bucket is a container for objects that are
stored in Amazon S3.
• An object is the fundamental entity that is
stored in Amazon S3.
• The key benefits of Amazon S3 include
durability, availability, and high
performance.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 17 ===
Using Amazon S3
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section describes different use cases that Amazon S3 supports for customers’ solutions.
=== Page 18 ===
How customers use Amazon S3
Spikes in demand Static site Financial analysis Disaster recovery
Host web content that Host a static site that Store data that other Support disaster
needs bandwidth to consists of HTML files, services can use for recovery or data
address extreme images, and videos. analysis. backup solutions.
spikes in demand.
Now that you know about Amazon S3 features, how can customers use these features to address their needs?
In this section of the module, you will learn about common use cases and see how they relate to the issues
addressed on this slide.
These use cases use Amazon S3 as an essential part of a robust architectural solution.
=== Page 19 ===
Use case: Media hosting
https://<bucket-name>.s3.amazonaws.com/video.mp4
Image description: Diagram of an S3 bucket with video content and two users streaming content from it. One
user receives the stream directly, and the other receives it through a CloudFront edge location. End description.
One common use case scenario for Amazon S3 is to use it for media hosting. In this use case, Amazon S3 is used
to store and distribute videos, photos, music files, and other media. This content can be delivered directly from
Amazon S3 because each object in Amazon S3 has a unique HTTP URL.
Alternatively, Amazon S3 can serve as an origin store for a content delivery network (CDN), such as Amazon
CloudFront. The elasticity of Amazon S3 makes it well-suited for hosting web content that needs bandwidth to
address extreme spikes in demand. Also, because you do not need to provision storage for Amazon S3, it works
well for fast-growing websites that host data-intensive, user-generated content, such as video-and photo-
sharing sites.
=== Page 20 ===
Use case: Host static websites
Image description: Diagram shows example objects stored in an S3 bucket configured to host a static website.
The bucket contents include HTML, .js, and .css files, and an end-user is able to a view the website through a
URL in the form of http://bucket-name.s3-website.Region.amazonaws.com. End description.
A second Amazon S3 use case is to use the service to host a staticwebsite. On a static website, individual
webpages include static content. They might also contain client-side scripts.
By contrast, a dynamicwebsite relies on server-side processing, which might involve database queries that run
in response to server-side scripts, such as PHP, JSP, or ASP.NET. Amazon S3 does not support server-side
scripting. However, AWS offers other services that you can use to host dynamic websites.
To host a staticwebsite, configure an S3 bucket for website hosting, and attach a bucket policy that allows
access to the objects. Then, upload your website content to the bucket.
The example shows that the static site might consist of HTML files, images, videos, and client-side scripts in
formats such as JavaScript.
With this approach, you do not need to run a virtual machine that hosts a web server. In fact, you do not need
to run a server. However, you can still host a website. Amazon S3 provides a low-cost solution for web hosting
that includes high performance, scalability, and availability.
=== Page 21 ===
Use case: Data store for computation and analytics
Example data integration and preparation pattern
Image description Graphic shows a compute cluster spun up temporarily. It extracts data from an S3 bucket and
another undefined source, transforms the data, and then loads the transformed data to a processed data S3
bucket where Amazon QuickSight or another analytics tool can access the transformed data. End Description
Youcan also use Amazon S3 as a data store for computation or large-scale analytics, such as financial
transaction analysis, clickstream analytics, and media transcoding. Amazon S3 can support these workloads
because of its horizontal scaling ability, which provides for multiple concurrent transactions.
The following steps describe this example:
1. An Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) Spot Fleet is spun up when the bid price for Spot Instances
is low or when an Amazon EMR cluster is spun up.
2. Regardless, after the compute capacity is available, raw unprocessed data is extracted from Amazon S3 and
also from another data source.
3. The data is run through compute algorithms that integrate and transform it.
4. The resulting processeddata is loaded into a different S3 bucket.
5. Now that the data has been processed, the compute capacity is terminated to save on costs.
6. Finally, an analytics tool, such as Amazon QuickSight, might be used to harvest meaningful insights from the
processed data. This is just one example scenario of how Amazon S3 can play an essential role for data
storage in a large-scale analytics solutions architecture.
=== Page 22 ===
Use case: Back up and archive critical data
Image description: Graphic shows data from a corporate data center being uploaded to an S3 bucket. Other
data from Amazon EC2 instances is also shown as being backed up to the same bucket. End description.
In the fourth and final use case discussed in this module, Amazon S3 is used as a data backup solution. Because
of its highly durable and scalable nature, Amazon S3 works well as a data backup and archival tool.
In the scenario, data is backed up from an on-premises corporate data center and also from a large number of
Amazon EC2 instances. These instances run applications that generate data.
Another Amazon S3 option that you can configure on your buckets—to achieve even higher levels of
durability—is cross-Region replication. In cross-Region replication, objects that are uploaded to a bucket in one
Region will be automatically copied to other S3 buckets in other Regions. Note that this is an asynchronous
process.
Additionally, you can move long-term data from Amazon S3 standard storage to Amazon Simple Storage Service
Glacier (Amazon S3 Glacier). This module discusses this process in more detail later.
=== Page 23 ===
Key takeaways: Amazon S3 is often used to do the
Using Amazon S3 following:
• Store and distribute videos, photos, music
files, and other media.
• Support static content, including HTML
files, images, videos.
• Store data for computation and large-
scale analytics.
• Provide a data backup solution.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 24 ===
Moving data to and from Amazon S3
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section describes how to move data to and from Amazon S3.
=== Page 25 ===
Storing objects in Amazon S3
• There is no limit to the number of objects in a bucket.
• Uploading an object requires write permission to the bucket.
• Objects are encrypted by default.
• During upload, objects are automatically encrypted by using
server-side encryption.
• During download, objects are decrypted.
When you upload a file to Amazon S3, it is stored as an S3 object. You can have an unlimited number of objects
in a bucket. Before you can upload files to an S3 bucket, you need write permissions for the bucket.
You can upload any file type, including images, backups, data, and movies, into an S3 bucket. When you upload
an object, the object is automatically encrypted by using server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys
(SSE-S3) by default. When you download an object, the object is decrypted.
=== Page 26 ===
Options for uploading objects to Amazon S3
Uploading Amazon S3 Description
AWS Use a wizard-based approach to move data into or out of Amazon S3, including
Management Console the option to drag and drop files. (maximum size is 160 GB).
AWS Command
Upload or download from a terminal command prompt or in a call from a script.
Line Interface (AWS CLI)
AWS SDKs Use AWS SDKs to upload objects programmatically.
Amazon S3 REST API Send aPUTrequest to upload data in a single operation.
The AWS Management Console offers a way to move data into or out of Amazon S3. It offers a wizard-based
approach, including the option to drag and drop files that you want to copy into a bucket. The maximum size of
a file that you can upload by using the Amazon S3 Management Console is 160 GB.
To upload a file larger than 160 GB, use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), AWS SDKs, or Amazon S3
REST API. With these three methods, you can upload an object in parts by using the multipart upload API
operation. You can upload a single large object up to 5 TB in size. The following slide covers multipart uploads in
more detail.
You can use the AWS CLI to upload or download from a terminal command prompt or in a call from a script.
Use the AWS SDKs to upload objects in Amazon S3. The SDKs provide wrapper libraries for you to upload data.
See the link provided on the course resources page for a list of supported SDKs..
Send Amazon S3 REST API requests to upload an object. You can send a PUTrequest to upload data in a single
operation.A PUT request adds an object to a bucket. You must have write permissions on a bucket to add an
object to it. See the link provided on the course resources page for more information PUT objects.
See the link provided on the course resources page for more information about S3 AWS CLI Command
reference.
=== Page 27 ===
Amazon S3 feature: Multipart upload
Multipart uploads have the following advantages:
• Improve throughput.
• Recover quickly from any network issues.
• Pause and resume object uploads.
• Begin an upload before you know the final object size.
AWS Cloud
1 3
Object Object parts Reassembled object S3 bucket
You can use multipart upload to upload a single object as a set of parts. Each part is a contiguous portion of the
object's data. You can upload these object parts independently and in any order. If transmission of any part fails,
you can retransmit that part without affecting other parts. After all parts of your object are uploaded, Amazon
S3 assembles these parts and creates the object. Amazon S3 carries out this process behind the scenes
whenever you upload files.
The following are advantages to multipart uploads:
• Improved throughput: Parts are uploaded in parallel to improve throughput.
• Recover quickly from any network issues: Smaller part size minimizes the impact of restarting a failed upload
due to a network error.
• Pause and resume object uploads: You can upload object parts over time. After you initiate a multipart
upload, there is no expiry; you must explicitly complete or stop the multipart upload.
• Begin an upload before you know the final object size: You can upload an object as you are creating it.
See the link provided on the course resources page for more information about multipart upload.
=== Page 28 ===
S3 Transfer Acceleration
• Provides fast and secure transfers of files
over long distances.
• Optimizes transfer speeds from across
the world into S3 buckets.
• Uses globally distributed edge locations
in CloudFront.
• Improves speed by 50–500 percent on
average for cross-country transfer of
larger objects.
Image description: Diagram compares a standard Amazon S3 upload that is uploaded directly to an S3 bucket
with an S3 Transfer Acceleration upload that is uploaded to a CloudFront edge location before it is then
transferred to the S3 bucket. End description
Now that you have learned about the advantages of multipart upload, you will look at how can you improve
transfer speeds when uploading files.
S3 Transfer Acceleration is a bucket-level feature that enables fast and secure transfers of files over long
distances between your client and an S3 bucket. Transfer Acceleration is designed to optimize transfer speeds
from across the world into S3 buckets. Transfer Acceleration takes advantage of the globally distributed edge
locations in CloudFront. As the data arrives at an edge location, the data is routed to Amazon S3 over an
optimized network path.
You might want to use Transfer Acceleration on a bucket for various reasons:
• Your customers upload to a centralized bucket from all over the world.
• You transfer gigabytes to terabytes of data on a regular basis across continents.
• You can't use all of your available bandwidth over the internet when uploading to Amazon S3.
See the link provided on the course resources page to compare accelerated and non-accelerated upload speeds
across Amazon S3 Regions.
=== Page 29 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demo uses Amazon S3 Transfer
Acceleration.
S3 Transfer
Acceleration • In this demonstration, you will see how to enable
transfer acceleration for an S3 bucket and access
accelerated data transfers.
Find this recorded demo in your course as part of this module.
=== Page 30 ===
AWS Transfer Family
• Is a fully managed AWS service
• Is used to transfer files into and out of Amazon S3 storage
or Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) file systems
over the following protocols:
• Secure Shell (SSH) File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) version 3
• File Transfer Protocol Secure (FTPS)
• File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
AWS Transfer • Applicability Statement 2 (AS2)
Family
AWS Transfer Family is a secure transfer service that you can use to transfer files into and out of AWS storage
services. Transfer Family is part of the AWS Cloud platform.
Transfer Family supports transferring data from or to the following AWS storage services.
• Amazon S3 storage
• Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) Network File System (NFS) file systems
Transfer Family supports transferring data over the following protocols:
• Secure Shell (SSH) File Transfer Protocol (SFTP) version 3
• File Transfer Protocol Secure (FTPS)
• File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
• Applicability Statement 2 (AS2)
For more information about Transfer Family, see the AWS Transfer Family user guide linked in your course
resources.
=== Page 31 ===
Transfer Family benefits
•Transfer Family is a managed service that scales in real time to meet your needs.
•You don't need to modify your applications or run any file transfer protocol infrastructure.
•With Transfer Family, you use native AWS services for processing, analytics, reporting, auditing,
and archival functions with your data in durable Amazon S3 storage.
•Transfer Family is a managed elastic file system (with Amazon EFS) for use with AWS Cloud
services and on-premises resources.
•Transfer Family is a managed, serverless file transfer workflow service that you can use to set
up, run, automate, and monitor file uploads.
•You pay for only the use of the service, and there are no upfront costs.
Transfer Family provides the following benefits:
• It is a fully managed service that scales in real time to meet your needs.
• You don't need to modify your applications or run any file transfer protocol infrastructure.
• With your data in durable Amazon S3 storage, you can use native AWS services for processing, analytics,
reporting, auditing, and archival functions.
• With Amazon EFS as your data store, you get a fully managed elastic file system for use with AWS Cloud
services and on-premises resources. Amazon EFS is built to scale on demand to petabytes without disrupting
applications. It grows and shrinks automatically as you add and remove files to help eliminate the need to
provision and manage capacity to accommodate growth.
• It is a fully managed, serverless file transfer workflow service that you can use to set up, run, automate, and
monitor file uploads.
• There are no upfront costs, and you pay for only the use of the service.
=== Page 32 ===
Use cases for Transfer Family
Amazon S3 Amazon EFS
•Data lakes in AWS for uploads •Data distribution
from third parties
•Supply chain
•Subscription-based data
•Content management
distribution with customers
•Web-serving applications
•Internal transfers within your
organization
The following are some common use cases for using Transfer Family with Amazon S3:
• Data lakes in AWS for uploads from third parties, such as vendors and partners
• Subscription-based data distribution with your customers
• Internal transfers within your organization
The following are some common use cases for using Transfer Family with Amazon EFS:
• Data distribution
• Supply chain
• Content management
• Web serving applications
See the link provided on the course resources page for more information about AWS Transfer Family.
=== Page 33 ===
Key takeaways: • Upload objects to Amazon S3 by using the AWS
Moving data to and Management Console, AWS CLI, AWS SDKs, or
Amazon S3 REST API.
from Amazon S3
• Use multipart upload to upload a single object as
a set of parts when the object size reaches 100
MB or greater.
• Use S3 Transfer Acceleration on an S3 bucket to
provide fast and secure transfers of files over
long distances between your client and an S3
bucket.
• Use Transfer Family to provide a secure transfer
of files into and out of AWS storage services.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 34 ===
Storing content with Amazon S3
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section describes storing content with Amazon S3.
=== Page 35 ===
Object storage classes
General purpose Intelligent tiering Infrequent access Archive
S3 Glacier Instant
Retrieval
S3 Standard-IA
S3 Glacier
Flexible Retrieval
S3 Intelligent-
S3 Standard
Tiering
S3 Glacier Deep
Archive
S3 One Zone-IA
S3 on Outposts
Amazon S3 provides different storage classes aligned to different customer requirements. Here is a list of each
storage type with a description:
• General purpose
• S3 Standard offers high durability, availability, and high-performing object storage for frequently
accessed data. Because it delivers low latency and high throughput, S3 Standard is appropriate for a
variety of use cases, including cloud applications, dynamic websites, content distribution, mobile and
gaming applications, and big data analytics. It provides durability across at least three Availability
Zones.
• Intelligent tiering
• S3 Intelligent-Tiering is the first cloud storage that automatically reduces your storage costs on a
granular object level by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier based on
access frequency, without performance impact, retrieval fees, or operational overhead. S3 Intelligent-
Tiering delivers milliseconds latency and high throughput performance for frequently, infrequently,
and rarely accessed data in the Frequent, Infrequent, and Archive Instant Access tiers. You can use S3
Intelligent-Tiering as the default storage class for virtually any workload, especially data lakes, data
analytics, new applications, and user-generated content.
• Infrequent access
• S3 Standard-IA (Infrequent Access) offers all the benefits of Amazon S3 Standard, but it runs on a
different cost model to store infrequently accessed data, such as older digital images or older log files.
There is a 30-day minimum storage fee applied to any data placed in it, and the cost is higher to
retrieve data from S3 Standard-IA than from S3 Standard storage.
• S3 One Zone-IA stores data in a single Availability Zone. It is ideal for customers who want a lower-
cost option and who do not need the availability and resilience of S3 Standard or S3 Standard-IA. It’s a
good choice for storing secondary backup copies of on-premises data or data that you can recreate.
You can also use it as cost-effective storage for data that is replicated from another AWS Region.
=== Page 36 ===
• Archive
• S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval is an archive storage class that delivers the lowest-cost storage
for long-lived data that is rarely accessed and requires retrieval in milliseconds. S3 Glacier
Instant Retrieval is ideal for archive data that needs immediate access, such as medical
images, news media assets, or user-generated content archives. You can upload objects
directly to S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval or use S3 lifecycle policies to transfer data from the
Amazon S3 storage classes.
• S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval (formerly S3 Glacier) is for data that does not require
immediate access but needs the flexibility to retrieve large sets of data 1-2 times per year
and is retrieved asynchronously at no cost. It is an ideal solution for backup, disaster
recovery, and offsite data storage needs. It is also a good solution when some data
occasionally needs to be retrieved in minutes, and you don’t want to worry about costs.
• S3 Glacier Deep Archive is the lowest-cost storage class in Amazon S3. This storage class
supports long-term retention and digital preservation for data that may be accessed once
or twice in a year. It is designed for customers—particularly those in highly regulated
industries, such as financial services, healthcare, and public sectors—that retain data sets
for 7-10 years or longer to meet regulatory compliance requirements.
• S3 on Outposts delivers object storage to your on-premises AWS Outposts environment
and uses the S3 APIs and features available in AWS Regions today. You can use S3 on
Outposts to store and retrieve data on your Outpost and to secure the data, control
access, tag the data, and report on the data. S3 on Outposts provides a single Amazon S3
storage class, named OUTPOSTS, that uses the Amazon S3 APIs and is designed to durably
and redundantly store data across multiple devices and servers on your Outposts. The S3
on Outposts storage class is ideal for workloads with local data residency requirements
and satisfies demanding performance needs by keeping data close to on-premises
applications. This module includes information about this storage class for your
awareness, but this training does not discuss this storage class further.
See the link titled Amazon S3 Storage Classes in the course resources page for more information.
=== Page 37 ===
S3 storage classes breakdown
S3 S3 Glacier S3 Glacier S3 Glacier
Intelligent- S3 Standard-IA S3 One Zone-IA
Standard Instant Retrieval Flexible Retrieval Deep Archive
Tiering
Availability
≥3 ≥3 ≥3 1 ≥3 ≥3 ≥3
Zones
Minimum
capacity
N/A N/A 128 KB 128 KB 128 KB N/A N/A
charge for
each object
Minimum
storage
N/A N/A 30 days 30 days 90 days 90 days 180 days
duration
charge
Retrieval Per Per Per Per Per
N/A N/A
charge GB retrieved GB retrieved GB retrieved GB retrieved GB retrieved
All storage class are designed for the following:
• Durability at 99.999999999 percent (11 nines)
• Availability at 99.9 percent with S3 One Zone-IA at 99.5 percent
• Available service-level agreement (SLA) at 99 percent
• Millisecond latency for the first byte of data
• Object storage type
• Lifecycle transitions
Some of the key differences include the following:
• The number of Availability Zones is greater than or equal to three for all storage classes except for S3 One
Zone-IA, which is one Availability Zone.
• The minimum capacity charge for each object is 128 KB for S3 Standard-IA, S3 One Zone-IA, and S3 Glacier
Instant Retrieval.
• The following are the minimum storage duration charges:
• 30 days: S3 Standard-IA and S3 One Zone-IA
• 90 days: S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval and S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval
• 180 days: S3 Glacier Deep Archive
• The retrieval charge is for each gigabyte retrieved for all storage classes except S3 Standard and S3
Intelligent-Tiering, which have no retrieval charge.
There may be a reason to have an object stored in a different class for different reasons, which leads to the
lifecycle policy.
=== Page 38 ===
Configuring an Amazon S3 Lifecycle
Amazon S3 lifecycle configurations are a set of rules that define actions that
Amazon S3 applies to a group of objects.
• Transition actions transition to another storage class.
• Expiration actions define when objects expire.
Data will automatically transfer to a
Set an S3
different storage class without any
lifecycle policy.
changes to your application.
An S3 lifecycle configuration is a set of rules that defines the actions that Amazon S3 applies to a group of
objects. There are two types of actions:
• Transition actions: These actions define when objects transition to another storage class. For example, you
might choose to transition objects to the S3 Standard-IA storage class 30 days after creating them or to
archive objects to the S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval storage class 1 year after creating them. There are costs
associated with lifecycle transition requests. For more information about Amazon S3 pricing, see the Amazon
S3 pricing page linked in course resources.
• Expiration actions: These actions define when objects expire. Amazon S3 deletes expired objects on your
behalf. Lifecycle expiration costs depend on when you choose for objects to expire. For more information,
see the Expiring Objects page in the Amazon S3 User Guide. Your course resources include a direct link.
After anS3 lifecyclepolicy is set, your data will automatically transfer to a different storage class without any
changes to your application.
By using lifecycle policies, you can cycle data at regular intervals among different Amazon S3 storage types. This
cycling reduces your overall cost because you pay less for data as it becomes less important over time. In
addition to being able to set lifecycle rules per object, you can also set lifecycle rules per bucket.
=== Page 39 ===
Amazon S3 lifecycle examples
Define S3 lifecycle configuration rules for objects that have a well-defined lifecycle. The following are examples:
1. If you upload periodic logs to a bucket, your application might need them for a week or a month. After that,
you might want to delete them.
2. You might upload some types of data to Amazon S3 primarily for archival purposes. For example, you might
archive digital media, financial and healthcare records, raw genomics sequence data, long-term database
backups, and data that must be retained for regulatory compliance.
3. Some documents are frequently accessed for a limited period of time. After that, they are infrequently
accessed. At some point, you might not need real-time access to them, but your organization or regulations
might require you to archive them for a specific period. After that, you can delete them.
With S3 Lifecycle configuration rules, you can tell Amazon S3 to transition objects to less-expensive storage
classes, archive objects, or delete objects.
=== Page 40 ===
Demo: Managing • This demo uses Amazon S3.
Lifecycles in
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
Amazon S3 create a lifecycle rule for Amazon S3 and
apply transition actions to objects.
Find this recorded demo in your course as part of this module.
=== Page 41 ===
Amazon S3 versioning
Amazon S3 versioning protects objects from accidental overwrites and deletes.
Versioning Disabled or
Action Versioning Enabled
Versioning Suspended
Upload an object Creates a new object with a Overwrites the original object, and
with the different version ID, and both are the previous object is no longer
same key retrievable by the version ID. retrievable.
Adds a delete marker, but the
Deletesthe object, and it is no
Delete object is still retrievable by the
longer retrievable.
version ID.
Amazon S3 provides a versioning feature to protect objects from accidental overwrites and deletes. You can use
versioning to recover from both unintended user actions and application failures.
You enable versioning at the bucket level. Each object in a bucket has a version ID, and when versioning is
disabled, the bucket’s value is set to null. When versioning is enabled, Amazon S3 creates a new object and
assigns a unique value to its version ID (increments it) every time it is uploaded.
By default, S3 Versioning is disabled on buckets, and you must explicitly enable it. When versioning is not
enabled, the ID of the object is null.
An S3 bucket can be in one of three versioning states:
• Versioning enabled: If you upload an object with the same key, Amazon S3 keeps the old object and creates a
new object with a new version ID. If you delete an object, Amazon S3 logically deletes it and adds a marker,
but the old version is retrievable by its version ID.
• Versioning disabled: This is the default setting. If you upload an object to a bucket with the same key, it
overwrites the old version. If you delete an object, it is permanently deleted.
• Versioning suspended: The versions of existing objects are maintained, but the bucket temporarily behaves
as if versioning were disabled.
When versioning has been enabled on a bucket, it cannot be disabled and can only be suspended.
There is no cost for using versioning, but because each version is a copy of an object, each version contributes
to storage costs.
For more information about versioning in S3 buckets, see the page Using versioning in S3 buckets in the Amazon
S3 user guide. Your course resources include a direct link.
=== Page 42 ===
Adding an object in a versioning-enabled bucket
PUT • Amazon S3 generates a new version
Object key = photo.gif ID and adds this newer version of the
object to the bucket.
• The original version remains in the
bucket.
Now you will look at some examples of how versioning works.
When you use a PUT request to add an object into a versioning-enabled bucket, the noncurrent version is not
overwritten. As the diagram shows, when a new version of photo.gifisPUTinto a bucket that already contains
an object with the same name, the following behavior occurs:
The original object (ID = 111111) remains in the bucket.
Amazon S3 generates a new version ID (121212) and adds this newer version of the object to the bucket.
=== Page 43 ===
Deleting an object in a version-enabled bucket
DELETE
When a request is made to delete an
Object key = photo.gif
object in a version-enabled bucket, all
versions remain in the bucket, but
Amazon S3 inserts a delete marker.
With versioning enabled, you can retrieve a previous version of an object if an object has been accidentally
overwritten or deleted.
When youuse the DELETEcommand to remove an object, all versions remain in the bucket, and Amazon S3
inserts a delete marker, as the diagram shows.
In this example, you can still retrieve the prior versions with the ID 121212 or 111111.
=== Page 44 ===
Retrieving the most recently stored version
GET • Requests for an object key return the
Object key = photo.gif most recent version.
• If the most recent version is a delete
marker, the request is not successful.
404 no object found
The delete marker becomes the current version of the object. By default,GETrequests retrieve the most
recently stored version. Performing aGET objectrequest when the current version is a delete marker returns
a404 Not Founderror, as the diagram shows.
=== Page 45 ===
Retrieving an object with its specific ID
GET
Requests for an object with its version ID
Object key = photo.gif
will successfully return that version of
with version ID = 121245
the object.
However, you canGETa noncurrent version of an object by specifying its version ID. In the diagram, youuse a
GETrequest for a specific object version, 111111. Amazon S3 returns that object version even though it's not
the current version.
=== Page 46 ===
Permanently delete an object
DELETE • Owners of the bucket can permanently
Object key = photo.gif delete an object by using delete with the
With version id = 121245 version ID.
• In this case, no delete marker is added, and
the specified version is not recoverable.
Lastly, you can permanently delete an object by specifying the version that you want to delete. Only the owner
of an S3 bucket can permanently delete a version.
If yourdeleteoperation specifies theversion ID, that object version is permanently deleted, and Amazon S3
doesn't insert a delete marker.
=== Page 47 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demo uses Amazon S3.
S3 Versioning
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
enable Amazon S3 versioning on an S3
bucket.
Find this recorded demo in your course as part of this module.
=== Page 48 ===
Support for cross-origin resource sharing (CORS)
Cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) defines a way for client web applications that are loaded in one domain to
interact with resources in a different domain. With CORS support, you can build rich client-side web applications
with Amazon S3 and selectively allow cross-origin access to your Amazon S3 resources.
To configure your bucket to allow cross-origin requests, you create a CORS configuration. A CORS configuration
is an XML document with rules that identify the following
• The origins that you will allow to access your bucket.
• The operations (HTTP methods) that will support for each origin. In this example, GET requests are allowed
from allorigins.
• Other operation-specific information.
When Amazon S3 receives a preflight request from a browser, it evaluates the CORS configuration for the bucket
and uses aCORS rule that matches the incoming browser request to allow a cross-origin request.
This slide shows one example: Youwant to host a web font in your S3 bucket. A webpagein an alternate domain
may try to use this web font. Beforethe browser loads this webpage, it performsa CORS check to make sure
that the domain from which the page is being loaded is allowedto access S3 bucket resources.
For more information about using cross-origin resource sharing (CORS), see the CORS page in the Amazon S3
user guide. Your course resources include a direct link.
=== Page 49 ===
Amazon S3 data consistency model
• Is consistent for all new and existing
objects in all Regions
• Provides read-after-write consistency
for all GET, LIST, PUT, and DELETE
operations on objects in S3 buckets
• Offers an advantage for big data
workloads
• Simplifies the migration of on-
premises analytics workloads
Along with versioning, consistency of data is important. Now you review the Amazon S3 consistency model.
Image description: Graphic shows a new object uploaded to S3 (as version 1). Any immediate read back of that
object will consistently be v1 (which confirms read-after-write consistency for PUTS of new objects). End
description
Amazon S3 pioneered object storage in the cloud with high availability, performance, and virtually unlimited
scalability, with eventual consistency. Without strong consistency, you would insert custom code into these
applications or provision databases to keep objects consistent with any changes in Amazon S3 across millions or
billions of objects.
Amazon S3 delivers strong read-after-write and list consistency automatically for all applications. With strong
consistency, Amazon S3 simplifies the migration of on-premises analytics workloads by removing the need to
make changes to applications. Amazon S3 also reduces costs by removing the need for extra infrastructure to
provide strong consistency.
Amazon S3 is strongly consistent for all new and existing S3 objects in all AWS Regions.
Amazon S3 achieves high availability by replicating data across multiple servers within AWS data centers. If a
PUT request is successful, the data is safely stored. Any read (GET or LIST) that is initiated following a successful
PUT response will return the data written by the PUT. This strong read-after-write consistency exists
automatically for all applications, without changes to performance or availability.
Strong consistency simplifies the migration of on-premises analytics workloads by removing the need to make
changes to support applications. It also removes the need for extra infrastructure, such as S3Guard, to provide
strong consistency.
=== Page 50 ===
Although objects are strongly consistent, S3 bucket configurations have an eventual consistency
model. For example, if you delete a bucket and immediately list all buckets, the deleted bucket
might still appear in the list. However, within a short period of time, if you run the list bucket
command again, the deleted bucket will no longer appear in the results for the list bucket.
See the link provided on the course resources page for more information on Amazon S3 strong
consistency.
=== Page 51 ===
Key takeaways: • S3 Standard storage is appropriate for cloud applications,
dynamic websites, content distribution, mobile and gaming
Storing content
applications, and big data analytics.
with Amazon S3
• Set an S3 lifecyclepolicy and your data will automatically
transfer to a different storage class without any changes to
your application.
• Recover from both unintended user actions and
application failures by using versioning.
• CORS defines a way for client web applications that are
loaded in one domain to interact with resources in a
different domain.
• The Amazon S3 data consistency model simplifies the
migration of on-premises analytics workloads by removing
the need to make changes to support applications.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 52 ===
Designing with Amazon S3
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section describes designing with Amazon S3.
=== Page 53 ===
Amazon S3 default security configurations
• S3 buckets and objects created are private and protected by
default.
• S3 buckets have encryption configured by default.
• Server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3)
is the default encryption.
When use cases must share Amazon S3 data, do the following:
• Manage and control the data access.
• Follow the principle of least privilege.
When your objective is to protect digital data, data encryption is an essential tool. Data encryption takes data
that is legible and encodes it. Encrypted data is unreadable to anyone who does not have access to the secret
key that can be used to decode it. Thus, even if an attacker gains access to your data, they cannot make sense of
it. Optionally, use AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) to manage secret keys.
Protecting data is very important. By default, all S3 buckets are private, and only users who are explicitly granted
access to S3 buckets can access those buckets. It is essential that you manage and control access to Amazon S3
data.
For more information, see Data protection in Amazon S3 on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 54 ===
Encrypting objects in Amazon S3
Encryption encodes data with a secret key, which makes it unreadable without a
key.
• Server-side encryption
• Amazon S3 encrypts objects before it saves the objects to disk and decrypts
the objects when you download them.
• Enable this feature by selecting the default encryption option on the bucket.
• Client-side encryption
• Encrypt data on the client side and upload the encrypted data to Amazon
S3.
• In this case, you manage the encryption process.
All S3 buckets have encryption configured by default, and all new objects that are uploaded to an S3 bucket are
automatically encrypted at rest. SSE-S3 is the default encryption configuration for every bucket in Amazon S3. To
use a different type of encryption, you can either specify the type of server-side encryption to use in your S3
PUT requests, or you can set the default encryption configuration in the destination bucket.
If you want to specify a different encryption type in your PUT requests, you can use server-side encryption with
AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) keys (SSE-KMS), dual-layer server-side encryption with AWS KMS
keys (DSSE-KMS), or server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C).
If you want to set a different default encryption configuration in the destination bucket, you can use SSE-KMS or
DSSE-KMS.
Client-side encryptionis another option. When you use this approach, you encrypt the data on the client side
before you upload it to Amazon S3. In this case, you manage the encryption process, the encryption keys, and
related tools. Like server-side encryption, client-side encryption can reduce risk by encrypting the data with a
key that is stored in a different mechanism than the mechanism that stores the data itself.
For more information, see Protecting data with encryption on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 55 ===
Amazon S3 tools for protecting buckets and objects
Tool Description
Block Public Access feature Makes buckets inaccessible to the public
AWS Identity and Access
Authenticates users by using IAM
Management (IAM) policies
Bucket policies Defines access based on specific written rules
Sets rules for access to buckets and objects (bucket policies are
Access control lists(ACLs)
the preferred method for controlling bucket access)
Configures access with names and permissions specific to each
Amazon S3 access points
application
Preassigned URLs Grants time-limited access to others with temporary URLs
AWS Trusted Advisor Provides a bucket permission check
AWS provides many tools and options for controlling access to your S3 buckets or objects, such as the following:
• The Amazon S3 Block Public Access feature overrides any other policies or object permissions. Enable Block
Public Access for all buckets that you don't want to be publicly accessible. This feature provides a
straightforward method for avoiding unintended exposure of Amazon S3 data.
• Write AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies that specify the users or roles that can access
specific buckets and objects.
• You typically use bucket policies to define access to specific buckets or objects when the user or system
cannot authenticate by using IAM. You can configure bucket policies to grant access across AWS accounts or
to grant public or anonymous access to Amazon S3 data. If you use bucket policies, you should carefully write
them and fully test them. You can specify a deny statement in a bucket policy to restrict access. Access will
be restricted even if the users have permissions that are granted in an identity-based policy that is attached
to the users.
• Set access control lists (ACLs) on your buckets and objects that are less commonly used (ACLs predate IAM).
If you use ACLs, do not set access that is too open or permissive.
• S3 access points are named network endpoints that are attached to buckets. You can use access endpoints to
perform S3 object operations. Customers with shared datasets can scale access for many applications by
creating individualized access points with names and permissions that are customized for each application.
• Preassigned URLs grant time-limited access to others with temporary URLs.
• AWS Trusted Advisor provides a bucket permission check feature. It is a useful tool for discovering if any of
the buckets in your account have permissions that grant global access.
See the link titled Data protection in Amazon S3 in the course resources page for more information.
=== Page 56 ===
Three general approaches to configuring access
Default Access policy applied Public Access
Here are three different general approaches to configuring access to objects in an S3 bucket:
• Option 1 shows the default security settings for Amazon S3. By default, all S3 buckets and the objects stored
in them are private (protected). The only entities with access to a newly created, unmodified bucket are the
account administrator and the AWS account root user.The resource owner can grant specific access
permissions to others, but anyone without those permissions will not have access.
• Option 2 shows a case where Amazon S3 was configured to provide controlled access. User A was granted
access to the objects in the bucket, but User B was denied access. Controlled access scenarios are common.
The bucket owner can configure these scenarios by using one or more of the tools or options for controlling
access to Amazon S3 data discussed earlier.
• Option 3 shows an occasion where S3 security settings have been disabled and anyone can publicly access
the objects stored in the bucket.
Not recommended
Using an S3 bucket to host a static website is an example of setting up an AWS architecture quickly. However, for
most Amazon S3 use cases, you would not want to grant public access to Amazon S3. Most use cases do not
require public access. More often, you use Amazon S3 to store data that is used by an application that runs
outside of Amazon S3 or to back up sensitive data. For these common use cases, you should never grant public
access to buckets that hold data.
=== Page 57 ===
Considerations when choosing a Region
Considerations Details
Data privacy laws and • Are there relevant Region data privacy laws?
regulatory compliance • Can customer data be stored outside the country?
• Can you meet your governanceobligation?
Proximity of users to data • Small differences in latencycan impact customer experience.
• Choose the Region closest to your users.
• Not all AWS services are available in all Regions.
Availability service and feature
• Services expand to new Regions regularly.
• Use some services cross-Region but at increased latency.
• Costs vary by Region.
Cost-effectiveness • Some services such as Amazon S3 have costs for transferring data out.
• Consider the cost-effectiveness of replicating the entire environment in
another Region.
Now that you have learned about protecting and encrypting your data, there are many considerations when
deciding what Region to host your data in:
• You should consider data privacy laws and your regulatory compliance requirements. Data that you store on
AWS is subject to the laws of the country and locality where it is stored. In addition, some laws dictate that if
you are operating your business in their jurisdiction, you cannot store that data anywhere else. Similarly,
compliance standards (such as the US Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA) have
strict guidelines on how and where data can be stored.
• Proximity is an important factor when choosing your Region, especially when latency is a critical factor. In
most cases, the latency difference between using the closest Region and the farthest Region is relatively
small, but even small differences in latency can impact customer experience. Customers expect responsive
environments, and as time passes and technology becomes more and more powerful, those expectations
also rise.
• Availability of AWS services and features is an important consideration. Though AWS strives to make services
and features available everywhere, the complications that arise from having a global reach make it
challenging to accomplish that goal. Instead of waiting until a service is available everywhere before
launching it, services are released when they are ready. Service availability is then expanded as soon as
possible.
• Cost is an important consideration when choosing a Region. Service costs can differ depending on which
Region they are used in. For example, an EC2 instance in the us-east-1 Region might not cost the same as if it
ran in the eu-west-1 Region. Typically, the difference in cost might not be enough to supersede the other
three considerations. However, in cases where the latency, compliance, and service availability differences
between Regions are minimal, you might be able to save by using the lower-cost Region for your
environment.
=== Page 58 ===
• Finally, in circumstances where your customers are in different areas of the world, consider
optimizing their experience by replicating your environment in multiple Regions that are closer to
them. Because you would then be distributing your load across multiple environments, your costs
for components in each environment might go down even as you add more infrastructure. For
example, by adding a second application environment, you might be able to cut your processing
and storage capacity requirements in half in each environment. Because AWS is designed to
provide that kind of flexibility and because you pay for only what you use, you could scale your
existing environment down as a way to mitigate the cost of adding another environment. The
downside to this approach is that you now have two environments to manage. Also, not all of
your components will scale down enough to mitigate all the costs of the new components.
Additionally, you might need to maintain one single storage source of truth in one Region, such as
a primary Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) instance. Your secondary Region
would need to communicate with the storage instance, which might increase latency and cost for
those operations.
See the link titled AWS Services by Region in the course resources page for more information.
=== Page 59 ===
Amazon S3 Inventory
• Use Amazon S3 Inventory to help manage your storage.
• Use it to audit and report on the replication and encryption status
of your objects for business, compliance, and regulatory needs.
• Speed up business workflows and big data jobs by using Amazon
S3 Inventory.
• Provide a scheduled alternative to the Amazon S3
synchronous List API operations.
Now that you understand the importance of encrypting objects, configuring access, and choosing a Region, this
next feature, Amazon S3 Inventory, helps you manage your storage.
For example, you can use it to audit and report on the replication and encryption status of your objects for
business, compliance, and regulatory needs. You can also simplify and speed up business workflows and big
data jobs by using Amazon S3 Inventory, which provides a scheduled alternative to the Amazon S3
synchronousListAPI operations.
Amazon S3 Inventory provides comma-separated values (CSV), Apache optimized row columnar (ORC) files, or
Apache Parquet output files that list your objects and their corresponding metadata on a daily or weekly basis
for an S3 bucket or objects with a shared prefix (that is, objects that have names that begin with a common
string). If you set up a weekly inventory, a report is generated every Sunday (UTC time zone) after the initial
report.
When you're configuring an inventory list, you can specify the following:
• What object metadata to include in the inventory
• Whether to list all object versions or only current versions
• Where to store the inventory list file output
• Whether to generate the inventory on a daily or weekly basis
• Whether to encrypt the inventory list file
You can query Amazon S3 Inventory with standard SQL queries by using Amazon Athena, Amazon Redshift
Spectrum, and other tools, such as Presto, Apache Hive, and Apache Spark.
The bucket that the inventory lists objects for is called thesource bucket. The bucket where the inventory list file
is stored is called thedestination bucket.
For more information, see Amazon S3 Inventory on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 60 ===
Amazon S3 costs
Pay for only what you use: No charge for data transferred:
• Gigabytes of objects stored (per • Out to the internet for the first 100
month) with different pricing for GB per month
each Region and each storage class • In from the internet
• PUT, COPY, POST, LIST or lifecycle • Between S3 buckets or to any
transition to move data into any service in the same AWS Region
Amazon S3 storage class • From an S3 bucket to any AWS
service or services within the same
AWS Region as the S3 bucket
• Out to CloudFront
With Amazon S3, you pay for only what you use. There is no minimum fee. You pay for storing objects in your S3
buckets. The rate you’re charged depends on the size of your object, the amount of time that you stored the
objects during the month, and the storage class. You pay a monthly monitoring and automation charge for each
object stored in the S3 Intelligent-Tiering storage class to monitor access patterns and move objects between
access tiers. In S3 Intelligent-Tiering, there are no retrieval charges, and no additional tiering charges apply
when objects are moved between access tiers.
For more information see AWS Pricing Calculator on the content resources page of your online course.
There are ingest charges for each request when using PUT, COPY, POST, or LIST requests or when using lifecycle
rules to move data into any Amazon S3 storage class.
For more information see Requests & data retrievals on the content resources page of your online course.
Encryption
Amazon S3 automatically applies SSE-S3 as a base layer of encryption to all new objects added to Amazon S3 at
no additional cost and with no impact on performance. SSE-C also does not incur any additional Amazon S3
charges. For SSE-KMS, you pay AWS KMS charges to generate or retrieve the data key used for encryption and
decryption. For DSSE-KMS, in addition to the charges for AWS KMS, you pay an additional encryption fee for
reach gigabyte for the second layer of encryption and decryption of data.
For more information see S3 encryption on the content resources page of your online course.
AWS Free Tier
As part of the AWS Free Tier, you can get started with Amazon S3 for free. Upon sign-up, new AWS customers
receive 5 GB of Amazon S3 storage in the S3 Standard storage class; 20,000 GET requests; 2,000 PUT, COPY,
POST, or LIST requests; and 100 GB of data transfer out each month. Your usage for the free tier is calculated
each month across all AWS Regions except the AWS GovCloud Region and automatically applied to your bill;
unused monthly usage will not roll over.
=== Page 61 ===
Activity: • The café owner has successfully created a
Designing with static website but now wants to make
documents more accessible to employees.
Amazon S3
They would like to house content
(cooking instructions, vendor information,
payroll, and compliance training) that
only employees can access.
• How could you set this up to meet the
owner’s needs?
Read the activity and discuss how you might set this up.
=== Page 62 ===
Activity solution: Created controlled access for each user
Because you do not want to set this up for public access, setting up controlled access meets the customer’s
need. First, create a folder for each type of content (cooking, vendors, payroll, and compliance). Then create
IAM policies (group or individual) to allow or deny users access to specific information based on their employee
level at the café.
=== Page 63 ===
Key takeaways: • S3 buckets are private and can be accessed only
by users who are explicitly granted access.
Designing with
Amazon S3 • SSE-S3 is the default encryption configuration
for every bucket in Amazon S3.
• Considerations when choosing a Region include
data privacy laws and regulatory compliance,
proximity of users to data, availability service and
features, and cost-effectiveness.
• Amazon costs are based on your objects' size, the
amount of time you stored the objects during the
month, and the storage class.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 64 ===
Café lab: Creating a Static Website
for the Café
(Café Website Lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 65 ===
The evolving café architecture: version 1
Architecture
Business Reason for the Update Technical Requirements and Architecture Update
Version
V1 Create a static website for a small Host the website on Amazon S3.
business.
V2 Add online ordering. Deploy the web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce the effort to maintain the Separate web and database layers. Migrate the database to
database and secure its data. Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) on a
private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) features to
application. configure and secure public and private subnets.
V5 Create separate access mechanisms Add IAM groups and attach resource polices to application
based on role. resources. Add IAM users to groups based on role.
V6 Help ensure that the website can Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
handle an expected increase in instances, and distribute compute and database instances
traffic. across two Availability Zones.
Sofíamentioned toNikhilthat she would like the café to have a website that will showcase the café visually
through images. The website should also provide customers with business details, such as the location of the
store, the business hours, and telephone number.
Nikhilis pleased to create the first website for the café. During this activity, you will take on the role of Nikhil
and work on producing the results that everyone at the café hopes that you can deliver. Perhaps you can even
exceed their expectations!
=== Page 66 ===
Café Website Lab • In this lab, you will do the following:
tasks
• Create an S3 bucket to host your static website
and upload content to your S3 bucket.
• Create a bucket policy to grant public read
access.
• Enable versioning on the S3 bucket.
• Set lifecycle policies.
• Enable cross-Region replication.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 67 ===
Debrief: Café Website Lab
• How did you protect the café website from accidental overwrite and
deletion?
• Which strategy did you use to help save on costs as the size of the
website grows through the use of versioning?
=== Page 68 ===
Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to storage
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
=== Page 69 ===
Well-Architected Framework best practices for storage
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practicesfrom the pillars that are most relevant to this module. This includes Security, Reliability, Performance
Efficiency, and Cost Optimization.
For more information, see the AWS Well-Architected Framework on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 70 ===
Best practice approach: Data protection – protecting data
at rest
Best practices
Enforce encryption at rest.
Enforce access control.
Data protection is an important best practice under the security pillar. Before architecting any workload,
foundational practices that influence security should be in place. The methods described for protecting data are
important because they support objectives such as preventing mishandling or complying with regulatory
obligations. Protecting data at rest is an important part of protecting data. Two important best practices that
relate to architecting with Amazon S3 as your storage layer are enforcing encryption at rest and enforcing access
control.
Enforce encryption at rest: Maintain the confidentiality of sensitive data in the event of unauthorized access or
accidental disclosure. Private data should be encrypted by default when at rest. Data that is encrypted cannot
be read or accessed without first unencrypting the data. Any data stored unencrypted should be inventoried
and controlled.
Enforce access control: Use mechanisms such as isolation and versioning, and apply the principle of least
privilege. Prevent the granting of public access to your data. Verify that only authorized users can access data on
a need-to-know basis. Protect your data with regular backups and versioning to prevent against intentional or
inadvertent modification or deletion of data. Isolate critical data from other data to protect its confidentiality
and data integrity.
=== Page 71 ===
In this, module you've learned about a number of Amazon S3 features and configuration choices
that support these best practices, including the following:
• S3 buckets and objects are encrypted by default, and you have options for how you manage the
security keys for that encryption.
• Buckets and objects are private by default, so you must explicitly grant access. You should grant
access to only those individuals and resources that require it. You can use IAM policies and bucket
policies to limit access to your Amazon S3 resources by both user and resource.
• You can use versioning to protect objects in your S3 buckets against the loss of data due to
accidental deletions or overwrites.
• The Block Public Access feature makes it difficult for you to inadvertently leave objects or buckets
open for public access.
For more information, see the security pillar whitepaper which is linked in your course resources.
Also see Data protection which is linked in your course resources.
=== Page 72 ===
Best practice approach: Architecture selection
Best practices
Learn about and understand available
cloud services and features
Factor cost into architectural decisions
The optimal solution for a particular workload varies, and solutions often combine multiple approaches. Well-
Architected workloads use multiple solutions and allow different features to improve performance. An
important best practice for architecture selection is to understand what's available. It is also important to
consider cost when selecting your storage.
Topics in this module that relate to these best practices include the following:
• Amazon S3 is a good choice for object storage and can store massive amounts of unstructured data.
• Available configurations that help with performance include S3 Transfer Acceleration for moving files over a
long distance between a client and a bucket, and multipart upload, which improves throughput when
uploading very large files.
• Amazon S3 provides different storage classes that you can use to store objects based on expected access
patterns. S3 Intelligent-Tiering automatically moves objects based on access patterns to the storage tier that
is most cost-effective.
For more information, see the performance efficiency pillar whitepaper linked in your course resources.
=== Page 73 ===
Best practice approach: Cost-effective resources –
evaluate cost when selecting services
Best practice
Perform cost analysis for different usage
over time
Cost-effective resources is an important best practice under the cost optimization pillar. Using the appropriate
services, resources, and configurations for your workloads is key to cost savings. Workloads can change over
time. Some services or features are more cost effective at different usage levels. By performing the analysis on
each component over time and at projected usage, the workload remains cost-effective over its lifetime.
Topics in this module that relate to these best practices include the following:
• Amazon S3 provides different storage classes, and you can create lifecycle rules to automatically move data
to a more cost-effective class. S3 Intelligent-Tiering automatically moves objects based on access patterns to
the storage tier that is most cost-effective. Note how these features support both performance and cost-
optimization best practices.
• Use Amazon S3 Inventory to audit how Amazon S3 is being used to help make cost-effective choices about
how your organization is using Amazon S3.
For more information, see the cost optimization pillar whitepaper linked in your course resources.
=== Page 74 ===
Best practice approach: Failure management - Use fault
isolation to protect your workload
Best practice
Select the appropriate locations for your
multi-location deployment
Failure management is an important best practice under the reliability pillar. Werner Vogels, CTO of
Amazon.com, is credited with this quote: “Failures are a given, and everything will eventually fail over time.” For
resilience, you should use an approach that builds layers of defense. For high availability, always (when possible)
deploy your workload components to multiple Availability Zones (AZs).
In this module, you've learned how Amazon S3 is designed to withstand failures so that you as an architect do
not have to think about incorporating these best practices. Here are some characteristics of Amazon S3 that
support this best practice:
• Amazon S3 is designed for 11 nines of durability to help ensure that data is not lost and is designed for 4
nines of availability so that you can rely on your data being accessible when needed.
• Amazon S3 redundantly stores your objects on multiple Availability Zones in the Amazon S3 Region you
designate.
• Amazon S3 regularly verifies the integrity of your data by using checksums.
For more information, see the reliability pillar whitepaper linked in your course resources.
=== Page 75 ===
Key takeaways: • Protecting data is a security best practice that Amazon S3
supports through these default configurations: encrypting
Applying the AWS
objects, making objects private, blocking public access.
Well-Architected
• You can protect data in Amazon S3 by limiting access through
Framework IAM policies and enabling versioning.
principles to storage • Selecting an architecture is a performance efficiency best practice
that Amazon S3 supports through its ability to store massive
amounts of unstructured data.
• Amazon S3 includes performance-improving options such as S3
Transfer Acceleration and multipart upload.
• Selecting cost-effective resources is a cost-optimization best
practice that Amazon S3 supports through features such as
lifecycle policies, intelligent tiering, and Amazon S3 Inventory.
• Failure management is a reliability best practice that Amazon S3
has been designed for through its durability and availability
features.
• You can use Amazon S3 for backing up data to improve failure
management of your applications and data.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section.
=== Page 76 ===
Module wrap-up
Adding a Storage Layer with Amazon S3
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 77 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Define Amazon S3 and how it works.
• Recognize the problems that Amazon S3 can solve.
• Describe how to move data to and from Amazon S3.
• Manage the storage of content efficiently by using Amazon S3.
• Recommend the appropriate use of Amazon S3 based on requirements.
• Configure a static website on Amazon S3.
• Use the Well-Architected Framework principles when designing a storage
layer with Amazon S3.
=== Page 78 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how the café lab in this module
addressed the cloud architect's key concerns
presented at the start of this module.
=== Page 79 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 80 ===
Sample exam question
Company salespeople upload their sales figures daily to Amazon S3, but their solutions architect is concerned that users might
accidentally delete or overwrite important documents.
Which action will protect against unintended user actions?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Amazon S3
• Accidentally delete or overwrite
• Protect against unintended
=== Page 81 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
Company salespeople upload their sales figures daily to Amazon S3, but their solutions architect is concerned that users might
accidentally delete or overwrite important documents.
Which action will protect against unintended user actions?
Choice Response
A Store data in two S3 buckets in different AWS Regions.
B Enable versioning on the S3 bucket where files are stored.
C Move uploaded data to an Amazon S3 Infrequent Access storage class at the end of each week.
D Use Amazon S3 Inventory to audit the status of objects in the S3 bucket where files are stored.
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 82 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is B.
Choice Response
B Enable versioning on the S3 bucket where files are stored.
Choice A (Store data in two S3 buckets) would provide some limited protection against data loss due to an
outage in one of the Regions, but it would not address the issue of someone accidentally deleting or
overwriting a file.
Choice C (Move data to Amazon S3 Infrequent Access) would be helpful if the question asked about reducing
costs for files that were not accessed often.
Choice D (Use Amazon S3 Inventory) might help the salespeople understand the activity on the objects in their
bucket, but it wouldn't prevent files from being deleted.
Choice B (Enable versioning) would provide a means of protecting files from being deleted or overwritten.
When versioning is enabled, the prior version of the file will still be available.
=== Page 83 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.