# Clean Text Extracted from: M05SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:31:48
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 05 Student Guide
Version 3.0.3
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 5: Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2 4
=== Page 4 ===
Adding a Compute Layer Using
Amazon EC2
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2 module. This module introduces you to using and
optimizing Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute (Amazon EC2) for your computing workloads.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
This module prepares you to do the following:
Module
• Identify how to use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
objectives
(Amazon EC2) in an architecture.
• Explain the value of using Amazon Machine Images
(AMIs) to accelerate the creation and repeatability
of infrastructure.
• Recommend EC2 instance types based on
requirements.
• Recommend storage solutions for Amazon EC2.
• Recognize how to configure Amazon EC2 instances
with user data.
• Describe EC2 pricing options and make
recommendations based on cost.
• Launch an Amazon EC2 instance.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing a compute layer with
Amazon EC2.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demos
• Adding compute with Amazon EC2 • Configuring an EC2 Instance with User Data
• Choosing an AMI to launch an EC2 instance • Reviewing the Spot Instance History Page
• Selecting an EC2 instance type Activity
• Adding storage to an Amazon EC2 instance
• Choosing Instance Types
• Other EC2 configuration considerations
Knowledge checks
• Amazon EC2 pricing options
• 10-question knowledge check
• Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to compute • Sample exam question
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also participate in an activity to choose instance types based on workload requirements.
You will also view two recorded demonstrations in your online course in this module. These demonstrations are
introduced in your student guide.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course, and a sample exam
question to discuss in class.
The labs in this module are described on the next slide.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab Challenge (Café) lab
Introducing Amazon EFS Creating a Dynamic Website for
the Café
This module includes the hands-on labs listed. There is a guided lab where you are provided step-by-step
instructions and a café (challenge) lab where you work on updating the architecture for the café. Additional
information about each lab is included in the student guide where the lab takes place, and detailed instructions
are provided in the lab environment.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to analyze key characteristics of my
designing a workload so that I can choose the AMI,
computer layer EC2 instance type, and attached storage
using EC2: options that optimize the performance
and security of my EC2-based workloads.
• I need to choose an EC2 purchasing
model that matches my compute use case
so that I can optimize the costs of running
my workloads.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module, remembering that the
cloud architect should work backwards from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example
business need and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Adding compute with Amazon EC2
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section describes the main compute options in the AWS Cloud and introduces the Amazon Elastic Compute
Cloud (Amazon EC2)service.
=== Page 11 ===
AWS runtime compute choices
AWS offers different compute services to meet the needs of different use cases.
Virtual Machines Virtual Private Platform as a
Containers Serverless
(VMs) Servers (VPS) Service (PaaS)
Amazon Elastic Amazon Elastic Amazon Lightsail AWS Elastic AWS Lambda
Compute Cloud Container Service Beanstalk
(Amazon EC2) (Amazon ECS)
Amazon Elastic AWS Fargate
Kubernetes Service
(Amazon EKS)
AWS offers several compute options to meet different needs. As you design the architecture to support a given
type of workload, it’s important that you understand the available compute options. As the diagram shows, the
main runtime compute choices can be grouped into five cloud compute model categories: virtual machines
(VMs), containers, virtual private servers (VPS), platform as a service, which is also known as PaaS, and
serverless.
In the VMs category, AWS offers the Amazon EC2 service. This service provides secure and resizable virtual
servers in the cloud that can be used to run workloads of different sizes, from small scale to enterprise level.
In the containers category, AWS offers Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS). It enables you to run
Docker container applications on AWS. AWS also offers Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) which
is a managed Kubernetes service that runs Kubernetes in the AWS cloud and on-premises data centers. You can
use both services to run container applications in an highly available and scalable manner.
In the virtual private servers category, Amazon Lightsailprovides developers with compute, storage, and
networking capacity and capabilities to quickly deploy and manage websites and web applications in the cloud.
Lightsailincludes everything you need to launch your project quickly (VMs, containers, databases, content
delivery networks (CDNs), load balancers, and DNS management) for a low, predictable monthly price. Lightsail
is best suited for projects that require a few virtual private servers and users who prefer a simple management
interface. Common use cases for Lightsailinclude running websites, web applications, blogs, e-commerce sites,
simple software, and more.
The PaaS category includes AWS Elastic Beanstalk. It’s a solution that runs web applications and services that
are developed in languages such as Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker. AWS Elastic
Beanstalk is suitable for situations where you simply want to upload your code and have the service
automatically handle the deployment for you.
The serverless category includes AWS Lambda, which is a serverless compute solution that runs Java, Go,
PowerShell, Node.js, C#, Python, or Ruby code. This category also includes AWS Fargate, which provides a
=== Page 12 ===
serverless compute platform for containers. Because they are serverless offerings, these services
enable you to run workloads without having to provision, configure, or manage servers.
This module focuses on the Amazon EC2 service.
=== Page 13 ===
Compute service category differentiators
Each service category offers different levels of infrastructure control and
application deployment speed.
Explain how each category differ in terms of management responsibilities, scalability, and suitability for different
types of workloads.
When you choose an AWS compute runtime for your workload, consider that VMs, container-based services,
and VPS provide more control over your infrastructure and enable higher degrees of customization. PaaS and
serverless services enable you to focus more on your application and less on infrastructure. They also enable
quick deployment.
The diagram shows the different service categories and illustrateshow VMs, containers, and VSPs offer more
infrastructure control and customization whereas Platform as a Service and serverless offer faster application
deployments.
=== Page 14 ===
Amazon EC2
•Provides VMs (servers) in the cloud
•Provisions servers in minutes
•Can automatically scale capacity up or down
as needed
•Enables you to pay only for the capacity that
Amazon EC2
you use
For the rest of this module, our focus will be on learning about Amazon EC2. It offers the broadest and deepest
compute platform in the cloud. You can use Amazon EC2 to provision virtual servers, referred to as EC2
instances, and completely control the computing resources of those servers. You can obtain and start new
server instances in minutes and quickly scale capacity both up and down as your computing requirements
change. You can you can also increase or decrease the size of existing servers.
From a cost perspective, you pay only for the capacity that you use.
Amazon EC2 provides VMs in the cloud and supports a variety of operating systems including Microsoft
Windows and many variants of Linux. The service also provides Mac instances, which natively support the
macOS operating system.
It offers choices with the latest processor, storage, networking, operating system, and purchase model to help
you best match the needs of your workload.
=== Page 15 ===
Amazon EC2 virtualization
An EC2 instance is a VM that runs on a physical host.
Discuss the different components that make up an EC2 instance. Explain the role of the host computer,
Availability Zones, VMs, operating systems, and the hypervisor layer. Highlight the importance of the hypervisor
in managing the access of VMs to physical hardware resources.
Amazon EC2 instances run as virtual machines on host computers that are located in AWS Availability Zones.
Each VM runs an operating system (OS), such as Amazon Linux or Microsoft Windows. You can install and run
applications on the OS in each VM. You can even run enterprise applications that span multiple VMs.
The VMs run on top of a hypervisor layer that’s maintained by AWS. The hypervisor is the operating platform
layer that provides an EC2 instance with access to the actual physical hardware resources that it needs to run,
such as processors, memory, and storage.
Some EC2 instances use an instance store. The instance store is also known as ephemeral storage. It is storage
that’s physically attached to the host computer and provides temporary block-level storage to an instance.
Many EC2 instances use Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) for the boot disk and other storage needs.
Amazon EBS provides persistent block storage volumes, which means that the data will be persisted. For
example, the data persists on an EC2 instance even when that EC2 instance is in a stopped state.
EBS-optimized instances provide faster access to an attached Amazon EBS volume by minimizing the I/O
contention between the volume and other traffic from the instance.
EC2 instances can have network connectivity to other resources, such as other EC2 instances, AWS services, and
the internet. You can configure the degree of network access to suit your needs and to balance accessibility
needs with security requirements. In addition, different instance types provide different levels of network
performance.
The diagram on the slide illustrates the following characteristics of an EC2 instance:
1. You can choose different configurations of CPU and memory capacity for an instance.
2. An instance provides network connectivity.
=== Page 16 ===
3. An instance supports different storage options including instance store and Amazon EBS
volumes.
=== Page 17 ===
Amazon EC2 use cases
Use Amazon EC2 when you need the following:
• Complete control of your computing
resources, including operating system and
processor type.
• Options for optimizing your compute costs
• On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, and
Spot Instances
• Savings Plans
• Ability to run any type of workload
• Simple websites
• Enterprise applications
• Generative artificial intelligence (generative AI)
applications
Amazon EC2 provides virtual machines where you can host the same kinds of applications that you might run on
a traditional on-premises server. Common uses for EC2 instances include web servers, application servers,
database servers, and media servers.
In particular, consider Amazon EC2 as a compute choice in situations where you need the following:
• Complete control of your computing resources: Amazon EC2 enables you to set up and configure everything
about your instances, from your operating system to your applications. In addition, you can choose instances
with either x86 or Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) processor architecture and instances with processor
accelerators such as machine learning accelerators.
• Options for optimizing your compute costs: Amazon EC2 offers several ways to pay for EC2 instances,
including On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, Spot Instances, and Savings Plans. You can also pay for
Dedicated Hosts, which provide you with EC2 instance capacity on physical servers that are dedicated for
your use.
• A virtual server to run any type of workload: From simple websites to generative artificial intelligence
(generative AI) applications, Amazon EC2 provides a wide selection of instance types optimized to fit
different use cases.
You will learn more details about Amazon EC2 configuration and pricing options in later sections of this module.
=== Page 18 ===
Steps for provisioning an EC2 instance
Break down the diagram: Describe each component and its function. Remind students about the function of
security groups. Discuss the key pair component, which allows secure SSH access to the instance and is essential
for remote management. Highlight the importance of security, and emphasize the need for a secure instance by
explaining the potential risks of not implementing proper security measures. Suggest additional security
measures that can be implemented, such as regular updates and patches to the operating system and software.
This diagram illustrates the main steps and components for provisioning an instance. The components that are
in the diagram are not an exhaustive list of the options that are available when you configure an instance.
However, they are important items that you need for launching a secure instance.
The steps are as follows:
1. You start with an Amazon Machine Image (AMI), which is the template that Amazon EC2 uses to launch an
instance. AWS provides some AMIs. Other AMIs come from third-party organizations and are available in the
AWS Marketplace. You can also create your own AMI from an existing EC2 instance.
2. After you choose the AMI, select an instance type. Amazon EC2 provides a selection of instance types that
are optimized to fit different use cases. Instance types comprise varying combinations of CPU, memory,
storage, and networking capacity.
3. If you plan to connect to the instance using Secure Shell (SSH) or Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), you must
specify a key pair. A key pair is a set of security credentials that you use to prove your identity when
connecting to an EC2 instance. A key pair consists of a public key and a private key.
4. When you launch an instance, you can specify network placement and addressing as appropriate to secure
and provide access to the instance. All instances are deployed within a network in a virtual private cloud
(VPC). You can also decide whether to assign a public IP address or a DNS address to the instance.
5. You must also assign a new or existing security group to the instance. A security group is a set of firewall
rules that controls the traffic to and from your instance. The security group defines which ports network
traffic can use.
6. Next, you specify the storage options for the instance. The storage type that the instance’s OS will boot from
can be either an instance store (ephemeral storage) or an EBS volume. You can also attach additional block
storage volumes to the instance.
7. If you intend to run an application on the instance that makes API calls to AWS services, you must attach an
=== Page 19 ===
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role to the instance. You use an instance profile to
pass an IAM role to an EC2 instance.
8. Finally, you can optionally specify user data when you launch an instance. This data provides a
powerful way to automate installations and configurations on the instance when it launches.
=== Page 20 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon EC2 enables you to run VMs in
Adding compute the cloud and easily scale capacity up or
down as needed.
with Amazon EC2
• You can use an EC2 instance when you
need complete control of your computing
resources and want to run any type of
workload.
• When you launch an EC2 instance, you
must choose an AMI and an instance type.
Launching an instance involves specifying
configuration parameters including
network, security, storage, and user data
settings.
=== Page 21 ===
Choosing an AMI to launch an EC2
instance
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section defines an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and discusses its main benefits. It also provides guidance
about how to choose an AMI and how to create a new one.
=== Page 22 ===
Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
An AMI provides the information that is needed to
launch an instance, including the following:
• A template for the root volume: Contains
the guest operating system (OS) and
perhaps other installed software
• Launch permissions: Controls who can
access the AMI
• Block device mappings: Specifies any
storage volumes to attach to the instance
An AMI provides the information that is needed to launch an instance. You must specify a source AMI when you
launch an instance. The AMI includes a templatefor the root volume of the instance, launch permissions, and
block device mappings.
A root volume typicallycontains an operating system (OS) and everythingthat has been installed in that OS
(applications, libraries, utilities, and others). Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) copies the template
to the root volume of the new instance and then starts it.
The launch permissionscontrol which AWS accounts can use the AMI to launch instances. They also let you
make the AMI available to the public.
The block device mappings specify additional storage volumes (if any) to attach to the instance when it’s
launched.
You can launch multiple instances from a single AMI when you need multiple instances that have the same
configuration.
You can also use different AMIs to launch instances when you need instances with different configurations. For
example, you might have one AMI to implementweb server instances in yourarchitecture, and another to
implement application server instances.
=== Page 23 ===
AMI benefits
Repeatability Reusability Recoverability
An AMI can be used Instances launched from the You can create an AMI from
repeatedly to launch same AMI are identically a configured instance as a
instances with efficiency and configured. restorable backup.
precision.
You can replace a failed
instance by launching a new
instance from the same AMI.
The benefits of using an AMI include repeatability, reusability, and recoverability.
AMIs provide repeatabilitybecause an AMI packages the full configuration and content of an EC2 instance. As
such, it can be used repeatedly to launch multiple instances with efficiency and precision.
AMIs promote reusabilitybecause instances that are launched from the same AMI are exact replicas of each
other. This design makes it easier to build clusters of similar instances or recreate compute environments.
AMIs also facilitate recoverability. If an instance fails, you can replace it by launching a new instance from the
same AMI that you used to launch the original instance. In addition, AMIs provide a waytoback upa complete
EC2instance configuration, which you canuse to launch a replacement instance if there is a failure. If any
additional software or changes to the base AMI configuration are made, it’s a best practice to save those
changes by creating a new AMI. This gives you a copy of your most recently configured AMI to recover from a
failure. Without it, those software additions or new configuration changes that aren’t saved before an instance
failure won’t be recoverable.
For more information on AMIs, see the Amazon Machine Images (AMI) web page.
=== Page 24 ===
Choosing an AMI
Choose an AMI based on the following: AMI source:
• Region • Quick Start: Linux and Microsoft
Windows AMIs that are provided by
• Operating system
AWS.
• Storage type of the root device
• My AMIs: Any AMIs that you create.
• Architecture
• AWS Marketplace: Pre-configured
• Virtualization type: For best templates from third parties.
performance, use an AMI with a
• Community AMIs: AMIs shared by
Hardware Virtual Machine (HVM)
others. Use at your own risk.
virtualization type.
Highlight the main points here.
When you choose an AMI to launch an instance, your decision should be based on five key characteristics:
• Region: Each AMI exists in a specific Region. Therefore, you must select an AMI that’s in the Region where
you want the instance to run. You can copy an AMI from one Region to another as needed.
• Operating system: For an AMI that’s provided by AWS, you can choose between Microsoft Windows or a
variant of Linux.
• Storage for the root device: All AMIs are categorized as either Amazon EBS-backedor instance store-backed.
The data on an instance store volume persists only during the lifetime of the instance, but the data on an EBS
volume persists independently of the life of the instance.
• Architecture: This characteristic determines the type of processor architecture that best fits your workload.
The choices are 32-bit or 64-bit, and either an x86 or Advanced RISC Machine (ARM) instruction set.
• Virtualization type: AMIs use one of two types of virtualization: paravirtual (PV) or Hardware Virtual Machine
(HVM). The main differences between PVandHVM AMIs include how they boot and whether they can take
advantage of special hardware extensions for better performance. For best performance, use an AMI with
the HVM virtualization type.
For more about the differences between PV and HMV, see the Linux AMI virtualization types web page.
You can obtain an AMI from one of four sources:
• Quick Starts are AMIs that are built by AWS. They offer the choice of either Microsoft Windows or variants of
the Linuxoperating system. The Linux options include: Amazon Linux, Ubuntu, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, SUSE
Linux Enterprise Server, Fedora, Debian, CentOS, Gentoo Linux, Oracle Linux, and FreeBSD.
• AWS also lets youcreate your own AMIs (My AMIs). You can create an AMI from an EC2 instance.
• You can also look for AMIs in the AWS Marketplace, which offers a digital catalog that lists thousands of
software solutions. These solutions include AMIs from software vendors for specific use cases.
• Community-built AMIs are created by people from around the world, and they can offer solutions to many
different types of problems. However, they are not vetted by AWS. Therefore, use them at your own risk. In
particular, avoid using them in any productionor corporate environment.
For more information on choosing AMIs, see the AMI typesweb page.
=== Page 25 ===
Instance store-backed versus Amazon EBS-backed AMI
Characteristic Amazon EBS-Backed Instance Instance Store-Backed Instance
Boot time for the instance Boots faster Takes longer to boot
Maximum size of root device 16 TiB 10 GiB
Cannot be in a stopped state;
Ability to stop the instance Can stop the instance
instances are running or terminated
Can’t change the instance type
Ability to change the Can change the instance type by
because the instance can’t be
instance type stopping instance
stopped
You are charged for instance usage,
You are charged for instance usage
Instance charges EBS volume usage, and storing
and storing your AMI in Amazon S3
your AMI as an EBS snapshot
Use case Persistent storage Temporary storage
There are important behavior and performance differences when you launch an instance by using an instance
store-backed AMIversus an Amazon EBS-backed AMI. They are as follows:
• Amazon EC2 instances that use instance storage take longer to boot than Amazon EC2 instances that use
Amazon EBS. This is because all the image parts have to be retrieved from Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3).
• The maximum capacity of the root device of an instance that is backed by Amazon EBS is 16 tebibytes (TiB)
and is greater than that of an instance store-backed instance, which is 10 gibibytes (GiB).
• You can’t stop an instance store-backed instance, you can only reboot or terminate it.
• You can’t change the instance type of an instance store-backed instance.
• The cost for an Amazon EBS-backed instance includes EBS storage charges. The cost of an instance store-
backed instance includes Amazon S3 storage charges. Amazon S3 storage costs are usually cheaper.
• Use an Amazon EBS-backed instance if you need persistent data on the storage of the instance, such as a
database or a web application. Use an instance store-backed instance if your data doesn’t need to be
persistent on that volume.
=== Page 26 ===
Amazon EC2 instance lifecycle
This diagram shows the lifecycle of an instance and highlights the extra actions and states that an Amazon EBS-
backed instance allows. A launched instance becomes "pending" and then "running." Running instances can be
rebooted, terminated, or stopped. A stopped instance can be started or terminated.
When an instance is first launched from an AMI, or when you start a stopped instance, it enters the pending
state. This state indicates that the instance is being provisioned on a host computer and is booting. The instance
type that is specified in the AMI, or for the original stopped instance, determines the hardware of the host
computer for the new instance.
When the instance is fully booted and ready, it exits the pendingstate and enters the runningstate. At this
point, you can connect to your running instance over the internet and start to use it.
As soon as an instance is in a runningstate, it can be rebooted by using the Amazon EC2 console, the AWS
Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), or AWS SDKs. It then moves to a rebootingstate. A rebooted instance stays
on the same physical host, and it maintains the same public DNS name and public IP address. If the instance has
instance store volumes, it retains the data on those volumes.
From the runningstate, you can also terminate an instance. Terminating an instance causes the instance to go
into an intermediary shutting downstate before it displays a terminatedstate. A terminated instance remains
visible in the Amazon EC2 console for some time before the virtual machine (VM) is deleted. However, you can’t
connect to or recover a terminated instance.
Instances that are backed by Amazon EBS can also be stopped from a runningstate. They enter the stopping
state before they attain the fully stoppedstate. A stoppedor terminatedinstance does not incur the same cost
as a runninginstance. As soon as the state of an instance changes tostoppingor shutting-downcharges are no
longer incurred for the instance. Starting a stoppedinstance puts it back into the pendingstate. When you start
an instance, the instance is typically migrated to a new underlying host computer and assigned a new public
IPv4 address.
You can also hibernate an EBS-backed instance from the runningstate. Doing so causes the in-memory storage,
=== Page 27 ===
private IP address, and Elastic IP address to be saved. They remain the same when you start the
instance again, so you can pick up where you left off. In most cases, when you start a hibernated
instance, it’s moved to a new host computer. However, your instance might stay on the same host
computer if the host computer has no problems. Similar to stopping an instance, you are not
charged for your instance when it is in the hibernate state.
=== Page 28 ===
Creating a new AMI
This diagram shows an instance that is launched from a starter AMI. It’s then modified and captured as a new
AMI that then itself becomes a new starter AMI. As a new starter AMI, it can be optionally copied to other
Regions.
You create an AMI from an EC2 instance. You start with a source AMI, which can be an AMI that already exists,
such as a Quick Start AMI that’s provided by AWS. Or, you can start with an AMI that you build from a VM that
you import. AWS offers the VM Import/Export service that you can use to import virtual machine images from
your existing environment to Amazon EC2 instances. You can also export them back to your on-premises
environment.After your source AMI is ready, you can then launch an EC2 instance from this AMI (step 1).
Regardless of the option you choose (step 1), you will have what the diagram refers to as an unmodified
instance. From that instance, you might then create a golden instance. In other words, create a VM that you
configure with the specific OS and application settings that you want (step 2). Then, capture it as a new AMI
(step 3).
For an EBS-backed AMI, you capture the new AMI by creating a new image, and AWS automatically registers it
for you. For an instance-backed AMI, you capture the new AMI by using Amazon EC2 AMI tools to create a
bundlefor the instance root volume, and upload the bundle to an Amazon S3 bucket. You then must manually
register the new AMI.
After an AMI is registered, the AMI can be used to launch new instances in the same AWS Region. You can now
think of the new AMI as a new starter AMI. Optionally, you might want to also copy the AMI to other Regions
(step 4), so that you can also launch new EC2 instances in those locations.
=== Page 29 ===
EC2 Image Builder
EC2 Image Builder automates the creation, management, and
deploymentof up-to-date and compliant golden VM images.
• Provides a graphical interface to create image-building pipelines
• Creates and maintains Amazon EC2 AMIs and on-premises VM
images
• Produces secure, validated, and up-to-date images
EC2 Image
Builder
• Enforces version control
Present EC2 Image Builder, which is a service that was introduced in December, 2019. If the service is new to
you, take the time to familiarize yourself with it.
Another way to create an AMI is to use EC2 Image Builder.
EC2 Image Builder is an AWS service that simplifies the creation, maintenance, validation, sharing, and
deployment of Linux or Microsoft Windows images. It provides a graphical interface to produce AMIs for use on
AWS and to generate VM images for use on premises.
One of the benefits of using EC2 Image Builder is that it lets you create images with only the essential
components such assoftware, settings, and other configurations. This can reduce your exposure to security
vulnerabilities. Before you use your images in production, you can use EC2 Image Builder to validate your
images with tests that are provided by AWS or your own tests. Finally, it provides version control for revision
management.
=== Page 30 ===
Key takeaways: • An AMI provides the information that’s
Choosing an AMI to needed to launch an EC2 instance.
launch an EC2
• Benefits of AMIs include repeatability,
instance
reusability, and recoverability.
• For best performance, use an AMI with
the HVM virtualization type.
• There are multiple sources to get AMIs
including Quick Start, Community AMIs,
AWS Marketplace, and My AMIs (that
store AMIs that you create).
=== Page 31 ===
Selecting an Amazon EC2 instance
type
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section defines Amazon EC2 instance types. It also provides guidance about selecting the best instance
types, based on the instance workload requirements.
=== Page 32 ===
EC2 instance type configuration
An EC2 instance type defines the configuration of CPU, memory, storage, and
network performance.
Network
Instance type vCPU Memory Storage
performance
m5d.large 2 4 GiB 1 x 50 NVMeSSD Up to 10 Gbps
m5d.xlarge 4 8 GiB 1 x 100 NVMeSSD Up to 10 Gbps
m5d.8xlarge 32 128 GiB 2 x 600 NVMeSSD 10 Gbps
All current generation instance types support enhanced networking, except for T2 instances.
Before you launch an instance, you should know what kind of workload will run on it. This helps you choose the
right instance type when you launch your instance. An EC2 instance type defines a configuration of CPU,
memory, storage, and network performance characteristics. The instance type that you choose will depend on
your workload’s performance and cost requirements.
This chart shows you the configuration for three instance types: m5d.large, m5d.xlarge, and m5d.8xlarge. As the
size of the instance type increases, the amount of vCPU, memory, and storage also increases.
Notice that the network performance is more static between sizes than the vCPU, memory and storage. The
m5d.large and the m5d.xlarge both offer a network performance that is up to 10 gigabytes per second.
However, the m5d.8xlarge offers a consistent 10 gigabytes per second of network performance.
However, this doesn’t mean that the m5d.8xlarge instance type is the right choice. To make the right choice,
you need to consider the instance’s workload performance needs and cost requirements. Then, choose the
instance type with the configuration that best matches those parameters.
All current generation instance types support enhanced networking, except for T2 instances. These enhanced
networking instance types ensure that the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) workloads running on them have
access to consistent bandwidth and comparatively lower aggregate latency.
=== Page 33 ===
EC2 instance type name
Instance types named components
• Family
• Generation
• Processor family
• Additional capabilities
• Size
Instance type names follow a standard convention. An instance type name consists of multiple parts that
describe the different characteristics of the instance type.
In this example, cis the family name for instance type name c7gn.xlarge. It is followed by a number, which is7
in this case. This represents the generation number of that type. So, a c7instance is the seventh generation of
the c family.In general, instances with a higher generation number are more powerful and provide a better
value for the price than instances with a lower generation number.
Following the generation number, you find an optional part that indicates processor family and additional
capabilities of the instance type. In the example, the gin the name indicates that the instance type uses AWS
Graviton processor. The nin the name indicates that the instance type has additional capabilities that are
Network and EBS optimized.
The next part of the name, which follows a period (.) separator, represents the sizeof the instance. The instance
type size defines the performance specification of an instance across the CPU, memory, storage, and network
performance categories. In the example, xlargeindicates that it is an extra-large instance.
Again, not all instance types include processor family and additional capabilities in the name. For example, the
instance name, m5d.xlarge, does not include a processor family letter in the instance type name.
For more information on instance type naming convention, see the Instance types web page.
=== Page 34 ===
Suitability of instance types for workloads
Type Workload examples Instance type examples
General purpose instance types • Web or application servers M7, Mac, M6, M5, M4, T4, T3,
• Enterprise applications T2
• Gaming servers
• Development or test environments
Compute optimized instance • Batch processing C7, C6, C5, C4
types • Distributed analytics
• High performance computing (HPC)
Storage optimized instance • High-performance databases I4, Im4, Is4, I3, D2, D3, H1
types • Real-time analytics
• Transactional workloads
Memory optimized instance • In-memory caches R7, R6, R5, R4, X2, X1, Z1
types • High-performance databases
• Big data analytics
Accelerated computing instance • Machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI) P5, P4, P3, P2, DL1, Trn1, Inf2,
types • HPC Inf1, G5, G4, G3, F1, VT1
High performance computing • Deep learning workloads Hpc7, Hpc6
(HPC) optimized instance types • Compute-intensive HPC workloads
You will now learn about the suitability of different instance types for different workloads. Instance types can be
categorized as general purpose, compute optimized, storage optimized, memory optimized, accelerated
computing, or High Performance Computing (HPC) optimized. You will see each of the categories in this slide
and the next slide.
General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking resources. They can be used
for diverse workloads. These instances work well for applications that use these resources in equal proportions.
Typical use cases for general purpose instances areweb or application servers, enterprise applications, gaming
servers, caching fleets, analytics applications, and development or test environments.
Examples of general purpose instance types include M5, T3, and A1instances.
Compute optimized instances work well for compute-bound applications that benefit from high-performance
processors. Instances that belong to this family are suited for workloads like batch processing, distributed
analytics, high performance computing (HPC), ad server engines, multiplayer gaming, and video encoding.
Examples of compute optimized instance types include C5and C5ninstances.
Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read/write access to very
large datasets on local storage. They are optimized to deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS.
They are suited for applications like high-performance databases, NoSQL databases, real-time analytics,
transactional workloads, big data, data warehouses, and log processing.
Examples of storage optimized instance types include I3, D2,and H1instances.
Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that process large datasets
in memory. They are suited for applications like in-memory caches, high-performance databases, and big data
analytics.
Examples of memory-optimized instance types include R5, X1, and HMIinstances.
=== Page 35 ===
Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators (or co-processors) to perform functions
like floating-point-number calculations, graphics processing, and data-pattern matching. They do so
more efficiently than performing those functions in software that runs on CPUs. Accelerated
computing instances are suited for machine learning and artificial intelligence, HPC, and graphics
workloads.
Examples of accelerated computing instance types include P3, G4,and F1instances.
High performance computing (HPC)instances are purpose built to offer the best price performance
for running HPC workloads at scale on AWS. HPC instances are ideal for applications that benefit
from high-performance processors such as large, complex simulations and deep learning workloads.
Examples of HPC instance types include Hpc7g, Hpc7a and Hpc6id instances.
For more information, see Instance Type Details on your course resources page.
=== Page 36 ===
Choosing an instance type
• With over 270 available instance types, how do you choose the right type?
• Consider both performance requirements and cost requirements.
• Use available resources to get recommended options.
Task Solution
• In the EC2 console, use the Instance Types page to filter by characteristics
Creating a new that you choose.
instance • Recommendation: The latest generation in an instance family typically has a
better price-to-performance ratio.
• You can get recommendations for optimizing the instance type by using the
Optimizing an
AWS Compute Optimizer.
existing instance
• You can evaluate recommendations and modify the instance accordingly.
Given the combination of instance type categories, capabilities, and options that are associated with an
instance type, it’s no surprise that there are quite a few of them. As of March 2020, there are more than 270
instance types available. This wide selection reflects the deep and broad richness of cloud compute offerings
provided by AWS.
The high number of instance types make it challenging to answer the question: How do you choose the right
instance type for your workload?
You want to choose an instance type that provides the level of performancethat your workload needs while
ensuring the efficient utilization of your instance’s resources to minimize cost. Start by analyzing or anticipating
the workload needed in order to run optimally. During the development of your application, the instance type
and size that’s best for the workload will present itself. It’s better to slightly under-spec and then resize/scale as
needed. Starting out with an inordinately larger instance than needed isn’t cost effective and can possibly even
obscure some performance issues.
AWS offers tools to help choose the right instance type for a workload: the Instance Typespage in the Amazon
EC2 console and the AWS Compute Optimizerservice.
If you are creating a new instance, use the Instance Types page in the Amazon EC2 console to help you search
and compare the choices. This page displays all the available instance types in a Region and provides search and
filtering capabilities based on attribute values. As a recommendation, when choosing an instance type in a
family, select the latest generation instance type because it typically has better price-to-performance ratio.
If you already have a running instance, you can use the AWS Compute Optimizerservice to get
recommendations on how to optimize the instance type. This service can analyze your instance’s runtime
behavior and make recommendations on how to optimize it. You can then evaluate the recommendations and
modify the instance accordingly.
=== Page 37 ===
AWS Compute Optimizer
AWS Compute Optimizer
• Recommends optimal
instance type, instance size,
and Auto Scaling group
configuration
• Analyzes workload patterns
and makes
recommendations
• Classifies instance findings
as Under-provisioned, Over-
provisioned, Optimized, or
None
AWS Compute Optimizer is a service that analyzes the configuration and utilization metrics of EC2 instances and
Auto Scaling groups. It generates optimization recommendations to reduce the cost and improve the
performance of your workloads. You can use these recommendations to decide whether to move to a new
instance type.
Compute Optimizer uses Amazon Machine Learning (Amazon ML) to analyze your workloads. Currently, it
generates EC2 instance type and size recommendations for M, C, R, T, and X instance families. When it’s
activated, Compute Optimizer will analyze your running AWS compute resources and start to deliver
recommendations.
Compute Optimizer classifies its findings for EC2 instances as Under-provisioned, Over-provisioned, Optimized,
or None. The Noneclassification might occur if you activated Compute Optimizer for less than 12 hours, when
the instance has been running for less than 30 hours, or when the instance type is not supported by Compute
Optimizer.
For more information, see the AWS Compute Optimizer User Guide on the content resources page of your
online course.
=== Page 38 ===
Activity: • Match example use cases to the EC2
Choosing instance type suited to each.
Instance Types • Use the information at
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-
types/
Navigate to the Instance Type Details page.
=== Page 39 ===
Activity: Choosing instance types
Workload Instance families
Transactional databases
C M I P
Small development
Inf2 R T
environments
Gaming servers
In-memory caches
Image and video
generation
Machine learning
Batch processing
Review each workload listed. Choose the instance family from the group of instance families that’s best suited
for the workload.
AWS recommends for customers to frequently review the Instance Type Details page to stay up to date on new
instance types that are released. New instance types might be released that improve efficiency and cost to
existing workloads.
=== Page 40 ===
Activity: Choosing instance types (Answers)
Workload Instance type family
Transactional databases I
Small development T
environments
Gaming servers M
In-memory caches R
Image and video generation Inf2
Machine learning P
Batch processing C
The I family is recommended for transactional database use cases.
The T family is recommended for development environment use cases.
The M family is recommended for gaming server use cases.
The R family is recommended for in-memory cachesuse cases.
The Inf2 family is recommended for image and video generation use cases.
The P family is recommended for machine learning use cases.
The C family is recommended for batch processing use cases.
=== Page 41 ===
Key takeaways: • An EC2 instance type defines a
Selecting an EC2 configuration of CPU, memory, storage,
and network performance characteristics.
instance type
• As a recommendation, choose new
generation instance types in a family
because they generally have better
price-to-performance ratios.
• Use the Instance Types page in the
Amazon EC2 console and AWS Compute
Optimizer to find the right instance type
for your workload.
=== Page 42 ===
Adding storage to an Amazon EC2
instance
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section describes the different storage options available for your EC2 instances. It covers the different
options for your root volume and also data volumes.
=== Page 43 ===
Amazon EC2 storage overview
AWS EC2 storage Root Volume Data volumes for Data volumes for data Data volumes for data
resource a single instance that is accessible from that is accessible from
multiple Linux multiple Windows
instances instances
Amazon EBS
Yes Yes No No
(SSD-backed only)
Instance store Yes Yes No No
Amazon Elastic File
System (Amazon No No Yes No
EFS) [Linux]
Amazon FSxfor
No No No Yes
Windows File Server
An EC2 instance will alwayshave a root volume, and can optionallyhave one or more data volumes.
EC2 instances have four main storage options:
• Instance store
• Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)
• Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)
• Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server
Only an instance store or an SSD-backed EBS volumecan be used to store a root volume. Use an instance store
when you need faster compute time and data doesn’t need to be stored persistently on the volume. If instance
store backed instances are stopped, all data on the volume will be deleted. Use an Amazon EBS volume if you
need the data on the volume to be persistent. You can stop and restart an EBS volume without losing data on
the volume.
In addition to being used as a root volume, an instance store or EBS volume can be used as a data volume.
However, they must be used by a single instance at a time. EBS volumes can be detached and added to a
different instance. In the case of an instance store volume, only the instance that the volume is launched with
can use it.
If you want to share a data volume among multiple instances at the same time, you can use Amazon EFS or
Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server. Amazon EFS provides a shared file system for Linux instances, but Amazon
FSxprovides a shared file system for Microsoft Windows instances.
In this section, you review each of these options.
=== Page 44 ===
Instance store
An instance store provides non-persistent storage to an instance. The data volume
is stored on the same physical server where the instance runs.
Characteristics
• Temporary block-level storage
• Uses HDD or SSD
• Instance store data is lost when the instance
is stopped or terminated.
Example use cases
• Buffers
• Cache
• Scratch data
Aninstance storevolume provides temporary block-level storage for your instance. This storage is on disks that
are physically attached to the computer that hosts the running instance. An instance store works well for the
temporary storage of information that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other
temporary content.
An instance store consists of one or more volumes that are exposed as block devices. The volumes reside on
either HDDs or SSDs. SSDs can be Serial ATA SSDs or Non-Volatile Memory Express (NVMe) SSDs. Instance stores
that use NVMehave higher I/O performance. An instance store is dedicated to a particular instance, but the
disk subsystem is shared among instances on a host computer.
The instance type determines the available sizes for an instance store and the type of hardware that is used for
the instance store volumes. Most instance types support instance stores, but not all.
The data in an instance store is preserved when the instance is rebooted, but not when it’s terminated. Instance
store-backed instances can’t be stopped. They can only be rebooted or terminated.If an instance reboots, data
in the instance store persists.
For more information, see the Amazon EC2 Instance Store topic in the Amazon EC2 online documentation.
=== Page 45 ===
Amazon EBS
Amazon EBS volumes provide network-attached persistent storage to an EC2 instance.
Characteristics
• Is persistent block-level storage
• Can attach to any instance in the same
Availability Zone
• Uses HDD or SSD
• Can be encrypted
• Supports snapshots that are persisted to S3
• Data persists independently from the life of
the instance
Example use cases
• Stand-alone database
• General application data storage
Amazon EBS provides block-level storage volumes, similar to an external hard drive, for use with Amazon Elastic
Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances. Amazon EBS volumes are highly available and reliable and can be
network-attached to running instances in the same Availability Zone.
Amazon EBS volumes persist independently from the life of the instance and can be encrypted. In addition, you
can back up the data on an Amazon EBS volume to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) by taking a
point-in-time snapshot.
Amazon EBS volumes reside on either HDDs or SSDs (Serial ATA SSD or NVMeSSD).
Because they are mounted on the instance, EBS volumes can provide extremely low access latency. For this
reason, EBS volumes can be used to run a database on an EC2 instance, for example.
=== Page 46 ===
Amazon EBS SSD-backed volume types
Amazon EBS SSD-backed volumes are suited for use cases where the
performance focus is on IOPS.
Volume type Description Use Cases
Balances price and performance • Recommended for most workloads
General Purpose SSD (gp2) for a wide variety of workloads • Can be a boot volume
• Highest-performance SSD • Critical business applications that
volume require sustained IOPS performance
Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) • Good for mission-critical, low- • Large database workloads
latency, or high-throughput • Transactional workloads
workloads • Can be a boot volume
Amazon EBS provides volume types that differ in performance characteristics and price to tailor storage
performance and cost to the needs of different applications. They fall into two categories: HDDs and SSDs.
SSD-backed volumes are optimized for transactional workloads that involve frequent read/write operations with
small I/O size, where the dominant performance attribute is IOPS (Input/Output Operations Per Second).
The two types of Amazon SSD-backed volumes are:
• General Purpose SSD (gp2) –Thisvolume type is the default EBS volume type for EC2 instances. These
volumes are suitable for a range of transactional workloads, including development or test environments,
low-latency interactive applications, and boot volumes.
• Provisioned IOPS SSD (io1) –This volume type is the highest-performance EBS storage option. It is designed
for critical, I/O-intensive database and application workloads, and throughput-intensive database and data
warehouse workloads.
Amazon EBS SSD-backed volumes are ideal for both IOPS-intensive and throughput-intensive workloads that
require extremely low latency.
=== Page 47 ===
Amazon EBS HDD-backed volume types
Amazon EBS HDD-backed volumes work well when the focus is on
throughput.
Volume type Description Use Cases
• Low-cost volume type • Streaming workloads
Throughput Optimized • Designed for frequently • Big data
HDD (st1) accessed, throughput- • Data warehouses
Description intensive workloads • Log processing
• Can’t be a boot volume
• Lowest-cost HDD volume • Throughput-oriented storage for large
Cold HDD (sc1) • Designed for less volumes of infrequently accessed data
frequently accessed • Use cases where the lowest storage
workloads cost is important
• Can’t be a boot volume
HDD-backed volumes are optimized for large streaming workloads where throughput (measured in MiB/s) is a
better performance measure than IOPS.
Amazon HDD-backed volumes come in two types:
• Throughput Optimized HDD (st1) –Thisvolume type is ideal for frequently accessed, throughput-intensive
workloads with large datasets and large I/O sizes.
• Cold HDD (sc1) –This volume type provides the lowest cost per GB of all EBS volume types. It works well for
less-frequently accessed workloads with large, cold datasets.
For more information, see the Amazon EBS Volume Types topic in the Amazon EC2 User Guide.
=== Page 48 ===
Amazon EBS-optimized instances
Certain EC2 instance types can be EBS-optimized
Benefits
• It provides a dedicated network connection to
attached EBS volumes.
• It increases I/O performance.
• Additional performance is achieved if using an
Amazon EC2 Nitro System-based instance
type.
Usage
• For EBS-optimizedinstance types,
optimization is enabled by default.
• For other instances types that support it,
optimization must be manually enabled.
Image description: Diagram of two instances exist on a single physical host, each attached to its own EBS
volume. All four of these objects exist in a single Availability Zone. The second instance uses a dedicated
network connection to connect to its EBS volume. End description.
Certain EC2 instance types can be optimized so that I/O access to an EBS volume is increased. These instances
are called Amazon EBS-optimized instances.
An EBS-optimized instance has a dedicated network connection between itself and an EBS volume. This
optimization provides the best performance for accessing EBS volumes by minimizing contention between
Amazon EBS I/O and other network traffic from the instance. Specifically, it provides a dedicated bandwidth to
Amazon EBS, with options between 425 Mbps and 14,000 Mbps (depending on the instance type that you use).
This dedicated bandwidth provides performance consistency. For example, for a General Purpose SSD (gp2)
volume that is attached to an EBS-optimized instance, it can translate to a 10 percent improvement over its
baseline performance.
If an EC2 instance type supports EBS optimization, it’s automatically enabled when the instance type is
categorized as EBS-optimized. Otherwise, you must manually enable the optimization when you launch the
instance by setting its Amazon EBS-optimized attribute.
Furthermore, if an EBS-optimized instance type is built on the AWS Nitro System, it can benefit from additional
performance increases. This system is a collection of AWS-built hardware and software components that
provide high performance, high availability, high security, and bare metal capabilities to eliminate virtualization
overhead.
For more information, see the Amazon EBS–Optimized Instances topic in the Amazon EC2 User Guide. A link is
included in your course references.
=== Page 49 ===
Shared file systems for EC2 instances
What if you have multiple instances that must use the same storage?
Not an option Not ideal option Best option
Amazon EBS Amazon S3 Amazon EFS Amazon FSxfor
(Linux) Windows File
Server (Windows)
Attaches only to one Amazon S3: Is an option, Amazon EFSand Amazon
instance but is not ideal FSxfor Windows File
Server:Both satisfy the
requirement
Amazon EC2 instance store and Amazon EBS provide good choices for storing both root and data volume for a
single instance. However, what if you need to share data among multiple instances simultaneously? How do you
handle an application that runs on multiple instances that must use the same file system?
Earlier in this section, you learned that an EBS volume must be attached to only one instance at a time.
Therefore, it can’t solve the stated problem. Amazon S3 is another option, but it’s an object store system, not a
block store. Thus, changes in Amazon S3 overwrite entire files, not blocks of characters in files. For making high-
throughput changes to files of various sizes, a file system works better than an object store system.
This requirement needs the performance and read/write consistency of a network file system. Amazon EFS and
Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server provide a shared file system for Linux instances and Windows instances.
You learn about these two services next.
=== Page 50 ===
Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)
• Provides file system storage for Linux-based workloads.
• Fully managed elastic file system
• Scales automatically up or down as files are added and
removed
• Petabytes of capacity
• Supports Network File System (NFS) protocols
Amazon EFS
• Mounts the file system to the EC2 instance
• Compatible with all Linux-based AMIs for Amazon EC2
Amazon EFS is a fully managed service that provides file system storage for Linux-based workloads. Files are
accessed through a file system interface (using standard operating system file I/O APIs). They support full file
system access semantics, such as strong consistency and file locking. Amazon EFS uses the Network File System
(NFS) version 4.x protocol. It can be used with any AMIs that support this protocol.
Multiple EC2 instances can access an EFS file system at the same time. Thus, Amazon EFS can provide a
common data source for workloads and applications that run on more than one Amazon EC2 instance. In
addition, EFS file systems can automatically scale from gigabytes to petabytes of data without needing to
provision storage.
=== Page 51 ===
Amazon EFS use cases
Common workloads and applications
examples for Amazon EFS include the
following:
• Home directories
• File system for enterprise applications
• Application testing and development
• Database backups
• Web serving and content management
• Media workflows
Example command to mount the file system to each guest OS:
$ sudo mount -t nfs4 mount-target-DNS:/ ~/efs- • Big data analytics
mount-point
You can access your Amazon EFS file system concurrently from multiple NFS clients, so applications that scale
beyond a single connection can access a file system.
The main use cases for Amazon EFS include the following:
• Home directories: Provides storage for organizations that have many users who must access and share
common datasets
• File system for enterprise applications: Provides the scalability, elasticity, availability, and durability to be the
file store for enterprise applications and for applications that are delivered as a service
• Application testing and development: Provides a common storage repository that helps you to share code
and other files in a secure and organized way
• Database backups: Can be mounted with NFSv4 from database servers
• Web serving and content management: Provides a durable, high-throughput file system for content
management systems that store and serve information for a range of applications (such as websites, online
publications, and archives)
• Big data analytics: Provides the scale and performance for big data applications that need high throughput to
compute nodes, along with read-after-write consistency and low-latency file operations.
• Media workflows: Provides the strong data consistency model, high throughput, and shared-file access that
can reduce the time it takes to perform video editing, studio production, broadcast processing, sound design,
and rendering jobs. At the same time, it consolidates multiple local file repositories into a single location for
all users.
For more information, see the Amazon EFS User Guide on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 52 ===
Amazon EFS with Standard class storage
Image description: Diagram of an Amazon EFS file system with standard class storage. Amazon EFS is supporting
instances in multiple Availability Zones. Each Availability Zone has a mount with an IP address that the file
system can connect to the instances through. End description.
Amazon EC2 and other AWS compute instances running in multiple Availability Zones within the same AWS
Region can access the file system, so that many users can access and share a common data source.
To access your Amazon EFS file system in a virtual private cloud (VPC), you create one or more mount targets in
the VPC.
• For file systems using Standard storage classes, you can create a mount target in each Availability Zone in the
AWS Region.
• For file systems using One Zone storage classes, you can create only one mount target that is in the same
Availability Zone as the file system.
Use Amazon EFS with a Standard storage class file system if your data is actively accessed and requires the
highest durability and availability. For data that is less frequently accessed and doesn’t require the highest levels
of durability and availability, use One Zone storage classes. For workloads that don’t require Multi-AZ resilience,
One Zone storage file system can result in a 47 percent lower price compared to file systems using Standard
storage classes.
For more information, see EFS storage classes on the content resources page of your online course.
Amount targetprovides an IP address for an NFSv4 endpoint that you use to mount an Amazon EFS file system.
You mount your file system using its DNS name, which resolves to the IP address of the EFS mount target in the
same Availability Zone as your EC2 instance. You can create one mount target in each Availability Zone in an
AWS Region. If there are multiple subnets in an Availability Zone in your VPC, you create a mount target in one
of the subnets. Then all EC2 instances in that Availability Zone share that mount target.
=== Page 53 ===
This example shows multiple EC2 instances accessing an Amazon EFS file system that is configured
with Standard storage classes from multiple Availability Zones in an AWS Region.
In this example, the VPC has three Availability Zones. Because the file system uses Standard storage
classes, a mount target was created in each Availability Zone. We recommend that you access the
file system from a mount target within the same Availability Zone for performance and cost reasons.
One of the Availability Zones has two subnets. However, a mount target is created in only one of the
subnets.
For more information, seeUsing the EFS mount helper to mount EFS file systems and Mounting on
Amazon EC2 Linux instances using the EFS mount helper.
=== Page 54 ===
Amazon EFS with One Zone class storage
Image description: Diagram of an Amazon EFS file system with One Zone storage class. Amazon EFS is
supporting instances in multiple Availability Zones. Each Availability Zone uses the same mount in Availability
Zone A. The mount has an IP address that the instances through. End description.
This example shows multiple EC2 instances accessing an Amazon EFS file system using One Zone storage from
different Availability Zones in an AWS Region.
In this illustration, the VPC has two Availability Zones, each with one subnet. The file system uses One Zone
storage classes, so it can only have a single mount target. For better performance and cost, we recommend that
you access the file system from a mount target in the same Availability Zone as the EC2 instance that you're
mounting it on.
In this example, the EC2 instance in the us-west-2c Availability Zone will pay EC2 data access charges for
accessing a mount target in a different Availability Zone.
A typical use case for Amazon EFS with a One Zone storage class is for frequently accessed data that doesn’t
require highest levels of durability and availability. An example might be a website that host blog pages.
For more information, seeUsing the EFS mount helper to mount EFS file systems and Mounting on Amazon EC2
Linux instances using the EFS mount helper.
=== Page 55 ===
Amazon FSx for Windows File Server
• Provides fully managed shared file system storage for
Microsoft Windows EC2 instances.
• Native Microsoft Windows compatibility
• New Technology File System (NTFS)
• Uses Native Server Message Block (SMB) protocol version
2.0 to 3.1.1
• Distributed File System (DFS) Namespaces and DFS
Amazon FSx for Replication
Windows File
Server • Integrates with Microsoft Active Directory and supports
Windows access control lists (ACLs)
• Backed by high-performance SSD storage
If you need file system-based storage for Microsoft Windows EC2 instances, Amazon FSxfor Windows File
Server provides fully managed Windows file servers, backed by a fully-native Windows file system. It’s built on
Microsoft Windows Server and has native support for Windows file system features and protocols including the
following:
• New Technology File System (NTFS), the default file system of Windows servers
• Server Message Block (SMB), the open standard protocol for accessing file storage over a network
• Distributed File System (DFS), a service that helps the organization of multiple distributed SMB file shares
into a distributed file system
• Microsoft Active Directory, the Microsoft directory service that administers and organizes enterprise
resources (including users, groups, and network resources)
Amazon FSxuses SSD storage to provide fast performance, high levels of throughput and IOPS, and low
latencies. It also reduces the administrative overhead of setting up and provisioning file servers and storage
volumes.
=== Page 56 ===
Amazon FSx for Windows File Server use cases
•Home directories
•Lift-and-shift application workloads
•Media and entertainment workflows
•Data analytics
•Web serving and content management
•Software development environments
Use cases for Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server (FSx) include the following Microsoft Windows workloads:
• Home directories: Create a file system that hundreds of thousands of users can access, and establish
permissions at the file or folder level.
• Lift-and-shift applications: It provides fully managed native Windows file shares with features, like Microsoft
Active Directory integration and automatic backups.
• Media and entertainment workflows: Media workflows—like media transcoding, processing, and streaming—
often depend on shared Windows file storage with consistent performance. FSxfor Windows File Server
provides you with a shared file system with the high throughput and low latencies that these Windows
workloads need.
• Data analytics: By providing scalable file systems with high throughput and low latencies, FSxfor Windows
File Server helps you to run data-intensive analytics workloads.
• Web serving and content management: Multiple web or content servers typically need access to the same
files. FSxfor Windows File Server provides a file system that can be accessed across thousands of instances
simultaneously.
• Software development environments: FSxfor Windows File Server lets you move to in-cloud development
with no changes to your development workflows by providing shared file storage that your developers and
their environments can access.
For more information, see Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server User Guide.
=== Page 57 ===
Key takeaways: • Storage options for EC2 instances include
Adding storage to instance store, Amazon EBS, Amazon EFS, and
Amazon FSxfor Windows File Server.
an Amazon EC2
instance • For a root volume, use instance store or SSD-
backed Amazon EBS.
• For a data volume that serves only one instance,
use instance store or Amazon EBS storage.
• For a data volume that serves multiple Linux
instances, use Amazon EFS.
• For a data volume that serves multiple Microsoft
Windows instances, use Amazon FSxfor
Windows File Server.
=== Page 58 ===
Guided lab: Introducing Amazon EFS
(Amazon EFS lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 59 ===
Amazon EFS lab • In this lab, you perform the following
tasks: main tasks:
• Log in to the AWS Management Console
• Create an Amazon EFS file system
• Log in to an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
(Amazon EC2) instance that runs Amazon Linux
• Mount your file system to your EC2 instance
• Examine and monitor the performance of your
file system
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 60 ===
Debrief: Amazon EFS lab
• For instances that connect to an EFS file system, where do they
need to be in relation to the EFS file system?
• Which port did you add to the inbound rules of the mount target’s
security group?
=== Page 61 ===
Other EC2 configuration
considerations
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section covers other EC2 configuration options. It covers how to use user data to run initialization scripts. It
also covers Amazon Machine Image (AMI) deployment strategies and placement groups at a high level.
=== Page 62 ===
EC2 instance user data
When you launch an EC2 instance, you can specify user data to run an
initialization script (shell script or cloud-init directive).
When you launch an EC2 instance, you have the option of passing user data to the instance’s operating system.
User data lets you provide a script that can be used to initialize it. For example, you can use user data to patch
and update the software that’s installed on the instance from the AMI, fetch and install software license keys, or
install additional software.
User data is implemented as a script, which contains shell commands or cloud-initdirectives. It runs with root
or Administrator privileges after the instance starts, but before it’s accessible on the network. In the user data
diagram, a user data script is provided to perform the following tasks when the instance is launched:
• Update all packages that are installed on the instance.
• Start the installed Apache HTTP web server.
• Configure the HTTP web server to automatically start when the instance boots.
The cloud-initpackage is an open source application. It is used to bootstrap Linux instances in cloud computing
environments, such as Amazon EC2. Amazon Linux and many other Linux variants (such as Ubuntu) contain a
version of cloud-init.The cloud-initpackage configures specific aspects of a new Amazon Linux instance when
it’s launched, even if you don’t specifically add them to the user data scripts. Most notably, it configures
the.ssh/authorized_keysfile for the ec2-user so that you can log in with your own private key. However, you
can also specify your own cloud-inituser directives by adding them as user data directives. Details, including
sample cloud-initdirectives, can be found in the Running Commands on Your Linux Instance at Launch
documentation.
When the user data script runs, it produces messages in a log file located at /var/log/cloud-init-output.logon a
Linux instance. For a Microsoft Windows instance, the log file is located at C:\ProgramData\Amazon\EC2-
Windows\Launch\Log\UserdataExecution.log.
On Microsoft Windows instances, user data is processed by the EC2Config or EC2Launch tools, which include
=== Page 63 ===
Windows PowerShell scripts. Windows 2016 and more recent Windows versions include EC2Launch.
Older versions of Windows include EC2Config.
=== Page 64 ===
Retrieving instance metadata
• Instance metadata is information about your instance.
• It’s accessible from your instance at this URL: http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/
• It can be retrieved from a user data script.
Metadata Value
instance-id i-1234567890abcdef0
mac 00-1B-63-84-45-E6
public-hostname ec2-203-0-113-25.compute-1.amazonaws.com
public-ipv4 67.202.51.223
local-ipv4 10.251.50.12
For user data to complete the launch of a new EC2 instance, it might need to look up instance metadata.
Instance metadata is data about your instance. For example, user data might need to learn and share the public
IP address, hostname, or media access control (MAC) address of the new instance to complete the launch. The
Instance Metadata Service can provide that information.
Specifically, you can retrieve metadata information from your running instance by accessing the following URL:
http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/. The IP address 169.254.169.254is a link-local address, and it’s valid
only from the instance.
Instance metadata provides much of the same information about the running instance that you can find in the
AWS Management Console. For example, you can discover the public IP address, private IP address, public
hostname, instance ID, security groups, Region, Availability Zone, and more. You can even access the user data
specified at launch time for an instance by accessing the following URL: http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-
data.
=== Page 65 ===
Working with user data on running instances
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4
Stop the instance. Modify the user data script. Remove the Re-run the user data script
config_scripts_userfile. by restarting the instance
or running a command.
Current user data: Modified user data: Command to remove Modified script runs:
config_scripts_userfile:
Example user data script: Example user data script: Example command to
Example code to remove run user data without
#!/bin/bash #!/bin/bash config_scripts_userfile: restarting the instance:
yum update -y yum update -y
yum install httpd start sudo rm /var/lib/ /var/lib/cloud/
service httpd start cloud/ Instances/* instance/scripts/
chkconfig httpd on /sem/config_scripts part-001
_user
When you have a running instance, you might still need to work with the user data of the instance. For example,
it might be the case that some of the user data script commands weren’t included when the instance was
launched. Or, it might be that the use case for the instance has changed and additional commands need to be
run to properly reconfigure the instance. In these kinds of situations, you can edit the user data script.
Therefore, it’s important to understand that the user data script only runs when the instance is first launched.
To successfully modify the user data, so that the modified script runs again on your instance, you need to follow
four steps.
• Step 1: First, you need to stop the instance.
• Step 2: Next, you can navigate to the edit user data page to modify the user data. (Navigation: Choose your
instance > Actions > Instance Settings > Edit User Data)
• Step 3: Then, you need to remove the config_scripts_userfile. This can’t be done in the AWS Management
Console user interface. To remove the config_scripts_userfile, you need to remotely connect to the instance
through SSH or SSM and run the following command: sudorm
/var/lib/cloud/instances/*/sem/config_scripts_user
• Step 4: Finally, you have two options to re-run user data script:
• You can restart the instance. After the instance restarts, the user data will begin to run.
• You can run the /var/lib/cloud/instance/scripts/part-001 command to re-run the user data script
without restarting the instance.
IMPORTANT: If you skip step 3, your modified user data script won’t run.
=== Page 66 ===
Manually running commands best practices
You might ask why we should go through all the effort to re-run the user data script? Why not just manually run
the commands that are required? Whether you want to run additional commands by running the user data
script again or by running them manually is optional. If you do run additional commands manually to configure
the instance, it’s a best practice to update the user data script. The reasons for this is are the following:
• You can maintain a record of the configuration for the instance. You might think of it as a type of version
control.
• You can copy the user data from one instance to a new instance that you launch that requires the same
configurations.
In the Best practices diagram, Web server A was launched with a user data script. Later, the instance required
additional commands to be run to configure the instance. The additional commands were run manually. Then
the instance’s user data script was updated to retain a record of the instance’s configuration. When you need a
new web server that requires the same configurations, you can copy the user data from Web server A to the
new instance.
In the Not best practicesdiagram, Web server B was launched with a user data script. Later, the instance
required additional commands to be run to configure the instance. The additional commands were run
manually. However, the instance’s user data script wasn’t updated to retain a record of the instance’s new
configuration. It still has the original user data script. Therefore, copying the user data from Web server B won’t
be enough to launch an instance with the updated configurations.
=== Page 67 ===
AMI deployment models
Basic AMI Silver AMI Golden AMI
• Base AMIs • AWS Managed Services (AMS) • Customized immutable AMIs
• AMIs configured with OS- provided mutable AMIs • Configurations fully baked
only • Configurations half baked into the AMI
• Fully configurable and into the AMI • All instances using the same
upgradeable • Some configurations need to golden AMI behave the same
• Shorter build time be done manually or by user • Shorter boot times but
• Slower boot time data scripts increases build times
• Provides a balance between • Shorter lifespan of the AMI
boot speed and build time
When deploying your instances, you should consider the configuration and customization that should be
included in your AMIs. There are three main AMI models that you can use to make these decisions: Basic AMIs,
Silver AMIs and Golden AMIs.
The model you choose can impact how the following configurations are provisioned:
• Security updates
• New versions of your applications
• Application configuration changes
• Updates to dependencies
A basic AMI model is your base AMI. This is an AMI with an OS-only configuration. With this model, you need to
configure the instance according to your requirements. You can do this manually or by using user data scripts.
This approach is fully configurable and upgradeable over time and shortens build times. However, it makes your
EC2 instances slow to boot because all required installations and configurations must be run at boot time. This
AMI deployment model might be used as the base AMI from which you create silver or golden AMIs.
A silver AMI is a mutable model. This model is a mix of manually pushing updates and using infrastructure-as-
code to launch your instance. Only prerequisite software and utilities are pre-installed, which leads to a longer
shelf life for the AMI. AWS Managed Services (AMS) provides AMIs for this model of deployment. This approach
provides a balance between boot speed and build time. Rollbacks become easier. This AMI deployment model is
a good choice if you want to launch instances from an AMI that might be used for different purposes. With this
deployment model, all the instances would have the same prerequisite software and utilities pre-installed.
However, there would be manual configurations that might differ from instance to instance.
A golden AMI is an immutable model. It uses an AMI that you have configured and customized to behave as you
want all of your application instances to. For example, the instances created with this golden AMI would self-
join the correct domain and DNS, self-configure, reboot and launch all necessary systems. When you want to
update your application instances, you re-create the golden AMI and rollout all-new application instances with
it. With golden AMIs, the applications and all dependencies are pre-installed, which shortens boot times but
=== Page 68 ===
increases build times. Golden AMIs typically have a shorter lifespan. Consider your rollback strategy.
This AMI deployment model is a good choice if you have instances that need to perform the same
functions and behave the same. For this deployment model, there will be no configuration changes
from one instance to the other.
For more information, see Application Maintenance Strategies and Amazon EC2 instance mutability
in AMS on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 69 ===
Placement groups
Placement groups give you control of where agroup of interdependent instances run in an
Availability Zone.
Placement benefits Placement limitations Placement strategies
• Increase network • An instance can be • Cluster
performance between launched in only one
• Partition
instances. placement group at a
• Spread
• Reduce correlated or time.
simultaneous failure. • Instances with a tenancy
of host can’t be launched
in a placement group.
When you launch a new EC2 instance, the default behavior of Amazon EC2 is to minimize correlated failures by
spreading out new instances across underlying hardware. You can use placement groupsto influence the
placement of a group of interdependentinstances so that they meet the needs of your workload.
Some key benefits of using placement groups are that it can increase network performance between your
instances. Also, it can reduce correlated or simultaneous failure.
Before you use placement groups, be aware of the following limits:
• An instance can be launched in only one placement group at a time.
• Instances with a tenancy of host can’t be launched in a placement group.
Depending on the type of workload, you can create a placement group by using one of the following placement
strategies:
• Cluster: Packs instances close together inside an Availability Zone. This strategy helps workloads to achieve
low-latency network performance.
• Partition: Spreads your instances across logical partitions so that groups of instances in one partition do not
share the underlying hardware with groups of instances in different partitions.
• Spread: Strictly places a small group of instances across distinct underlying hardware to reduce correlated
failures.
=== Page 70 ===
Demo: Configuring • This demonstration uses Amazon EC2.
an EC2 Instance
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
with User Data
do the following:
• Create an EC2 instance
• Configure user data
• Test the configuration
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 71 ===
Key takeaways: • User data lets you configure an EC2
Other EC2 instance when you launch it.
configuration
• Information about a running instance can
considerations
be accessed in the instance through an
instance metadata URL.
• There are three main AMI deployment
models: Basic AMIs, Silver AMIs and
Golden AMIs
• Placement groups give you control of
where a group of interdependent
instances run in an Availability Zone.
=== Page 72 ===
Amazon EC2 pricing options
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section discusses Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) pricing. It also provides guidance about
how to choose an the best instance payment method based on the use case for the instance.
=== Page 73 ===
AWS Free Tier: Amazon EC2
12 months free
•750 hours per month of t4g.small instance dependent
on region
•750 hours per month of Linux, RHEL, or SLES t2.micro
or t3.micro instance dependent on region
•750 hours per month of Windows t2.micro or t3.micro
instance dependent on region
With AWS Free Tier, there are three different types of free offers available depending on the product used.
• 12-Months Free:These free tier offers are only available to new AWS customers, and are available for 12
months following your AWS sign-up date. When your 12 month free usage term expires, or if your application
use exceeds the tiers, then you begin paying standard, pay-as-you-go service rates.
• Always Free:These free tier offers do not automatically expire at the end of your 12 month AWS Free Tier
term, but they are available to both existing and new AWS customers indefinitely.
• Trials:These free tier offers are short term trial offers that start from the time of first usage begins. After the
trial period expires, you begin paying standard, pay-as-you-go service rates.
As part of the AWS Free Tier, you can get started with Amazon EC2 with the 12-Months Freeoffering.
This means that new AWS customers have access to a limited selection of EC2 resources for 12 months after
signing up with AWS. When the 12 month free usage term expires, or if the application use exceeds the tiers,
you begin paying standard, pay-as-you-go service rates.
This offering is currently limited to the following:
• 750 hoursper month of t4g.small instance dependent on region
• 750 hoursper month of Linux, RHEL, or SLES t2.micro or t3.micro instance dependent on region
• 750 hoursper month of Windows t2.micro or t3.micro instance dependent on region
These offerings are subject to change. For more information and the most updated AWS Free Tier offerings, visit
the AWS Free Tier page.
=== Page 74 ===
Amazon EC2 pricing models
Amazon EC2 provides the following purchasing strategies to help you optimize
your costs based on your needs:
Purchase models Capacity reserved models Dedicated models
Emphasis is on providing big Emphasis is on providing Emphasis is on providing
saving through different use reserved instances to dedicated hardware that will
cases guarantee that you have them help you meet compliance and
when you need them regulation requirements
Amazon EC2 provides the following purchasing strategies to help you optimize your costs based on your needs.
Purchasing modelsprovide big savings through different use cases.
Capacity reserved models provide reserved instances to guarantee that you have them when you need them.
Dedicated modelsprovide dedicated hardware that will help you meet compliance and regulation requirements.
=== Page 75 ===
Amazon EC2 purchase models
On-Demand Reserved Savings Plans Amazon EC2 Spot
Pay for compute capacity Make a 1-year or 3-year Same discounts as Reserved Spare Amazon EC2 capacity
by the second or by the commitment and receive a Instances with more at a substantial savings off
hourwith no long-term significant discountoff on- flexibility in exchange for a the On-Demand Instance
commitments. demand prices. $/hour commitment. prices.
Recommended use cases: Recommended use cases: Recommended use cases: Recommended use cases:
• Spiky workloads • Committed workloads • All Amazon EC2 • Fault-tolerant workloads
• Experimentation • Steady-state workloads workloads • Flexible workloads
workloads • Amazon EC2 workloads • Stateless workloads
that might need
flexibility with
committed usage
AWS offers four ways that focus on big savings for Amazon EC2 instances: On-Demand Instances, Reserved
Instances, Savings Plans, Spot Instances, and Dedicated Hosts.
On-Demand Instancesoffer the most flexibility, with no long-term contract and low rates. They are a good
choice for applications with short-term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads. They are also suited for developing
and testing applications on Amazon EC2 for the first time. With On-Demand Instances, you pay for compute
capacity by the hour or by the second, depending on which instances you run. On-Demand Instances have the
lowest upfront cost and the most flexibility. They require no upfront commitments or long-term contracts.
Reserved Instances let you to reserve computing capacity for a 1-year or 3-year term with lower hourly running
costs. The discounted usage price is fixed for as long as you own the Reserved Instance. Reserved Instances are
a good choice if you have predictable or steady-state compute needs (for example, an instance that you know
you want to keep running most or all the time for months or years). If you expect consistent, heavy use, they
can provide substantial savings compared to On-Demand Instances.
Savings Plans is a flexible pricing model that offers low prices on Amazon EC2, AWS Lambda, and AWS Fargate
usage in exchange for a commitment to a consistent amount of usage (measured in dollars per hour) for a 1-
year or 3-year term. It offers lower prices on EC2 instance usage compared to On-Demand Instances, regardless
of instance family, size, operating system, tenancy, or AWS Region. There are two types of Savings Plans:
Compute Savings Plans and EC2 Instance Savings Plans.
• Compute Savings Plans provide the most flexibility and help to reduce your costs by up to 66 percent. These
plans automatically apply to EC2 instance usage regardless of instance family, size, Availability Zone, Region,
operating system, or tenancy. With these plans, you can make changes to the instance family, size,
Availability Zone, Region, operating system, or tenancy. This lets you change from one instance family type to
another or shift a workload from the London Region to the Ireland Region. You can even move a workload
from Amazon EC2 to AWS Fargateor AWS Lambda and continue to pay the Savings Plan price.
• EC2 Instance Savings Plans are less flexible. They apply to a specific instance family within a specific Region
and provide the largest discount (up to 72 percent, like Standard RIs).
=== Page 76 ===
Spot Instances let you to bid on unused EC2 instances and request spare computing capacity at
substantial savings. They are recommended for fault-tolerant, flexible (non-time-critical), stateless
workloads. To use a Spot Instance, your workload must have the ability to be stopped and restarted:
Amazon EC2 can interrupt it with a 2-minute notification to meet other capacity requirements. Your
Spot Instance runs when capacity is available and the maximum price per hour for your request
exceeds the Spot Instance price. Spot Instances are billed on 1-second increments, with a minimum
of 60 seconds, if they are running the Amazon Linux or Ubuntu operating system. All other operating
systems are billed in 1-hour increments, rounded up to nearest hour.
A variation of Spot Instances, called Spot blocks, lets you to run a workload continuously for a finite
duration of 1–6 hours. Spot blocks are designed to not be interrupted and will run continuously for
the duration you select, independent of the Spot Instance market price.
=== Page 77 ===
Demo: Reviewing • This demonstration uses Amazon EC2.
the Spot Instance
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
History Page do the following:
• Review Pricing History
• Customize Pricing History view
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 78 ===
Amazon EC2 Capacity Reservations
Capacity Reservations let you reserve compute capacity for Amazon
EC2 instances in a specific Availability Zone.
On-Demand Capacity Reservations Amazon EC2 Capacity Blocks for ML
This guarantees that you always have access Reserve GPU instances for a future date to
to EC2 capacity when you need it, for as long run any of your machine learning (ML)
as you need it. workloads.
Recommended use cases: Recommended use cases:
• Workloads that need to meet regulatory • Training and fine-tuning ML models
requirements for high availability • Running experiments and building
• Workloads that require capacity assurance prototypes
• Planning for future surges in demand for
ML applications
Capacity Reservations let you reserve compute capacity for Amazon EC2 instances in a specific Availability
Zone.There are two types of Capacity Reservations serving different use cases.
On-Demand Capacity Reservations let you reserve compute capacity for your EC2 instances in a specific
Availability Zone for any duration. Capacity reservations mitigate against the risk of being unable to get On-
Demand capacity in case of capacity constraints and ensure that you always have access to EC2 capacity when
you need it, for as long as you need it.
On-Demand Capacity Reservations are recommended for the following:
• Business-critical events or workloads that require capacity assurance
• Workloads that need to meet regulatory requirements for high availability
• Disaster recovery strategies that require reserved capacity in a different Availability Zone or Region
With Amazon EC2 Capacity Blocks for ML, you can reserve GPU instances for a future date to run your machine
learning (ML) workloads. You pay only for the amount of compute time that you need, with no long-term
commitment. EC2 Capacity Blocks can be used to reserve Amazon EC2 P5 instances.
EC2 Capacity Blocks are recommended for the following:
• Training and fine-tuning ML models
• Running experiments and building prototypes
• Planning for future surges in demand for ML applications
=== Page 79 ===
Amazon EC2 dedicated options
Amazon EC2 dedicated options provide EC2 instance capacity on physical servers
that are dedicated for your use (single-tenant hardware).
Dedicated Instances Dedicated Hosts
• Per-instance billing • Per-host billing
• Automatic instance placement • Visibility of sockets, cores, and host ID
• Isolates the hosts that run your • Affinity between a host and an
instances instance
• Targeted instance placement
• Add capacity by using an allocation
request
• Lets you to use your server-bound
software licenses and address
compliance requirements
Amazon EC2 dedicated options provide EC2 instance capacity on physical servers that are dedicated for your
use.
Dedicated Instances are EC2 instances that run on hardware that's dedicated to a single customer. Dedicated
Instances that belong to different AWS accounts are physically isolated at a hardware level, even if those
accounts are linked to a single payer account. However, Dedicated Instances might share hardware with other
instances from the same AWS account that are not Dedicated Instances.
A Dedicated Host is a physical EC2 server fully dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce
costs by letting you use your existing server-bound software licenses including Windows Server, SQL Server, and
SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (subject to your license terms). Dedicated Hosts can be purchased On-Demand
(hourly) or can be purchased as part of Savings Plans.
Dedicated Hosts are recommended for the following:
• Users looking to save money on licensing costs
• Workloads that need to run on dedicated physical servers
• Users looking to offload host maintenance onto AWS, while controlling their maintenance event schedules to
suit their business’ operational needs
You can use Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Instances to launch EC2 instances on physical servers that are
dedicated for your use. Both options let you to isolate the hosts that run your instances from the hosts that run
instances for other accounts. They also provide the same performance, security, and physical features.
Dedicated Hosts give you visibility and control over how instances are placed on a physical server. You can
consistently deploy your instances to the same physical server over time. As a result, Dedicated Hosts let you to
use your existing server-bound software licenses, and to address corporate compliance and regulatory
requirements.
Both options differ in the way that they are billed. A Dedicated Instance is billed per instance, and its pricing has
=== Page 80 ===
two components. The two components are an hourly per-instance usage fee and a dedicated per-
Region fee that you pay once per hour, regardless of how many Dedicated Instances are running.
A Dedicated Host is billed per host. You can choose from three different pricing models to pay for
Dedicated Hosts: On-Demand, Reservation Pricing, and Savings Plans.
To indicate that an instance should run as a Dedicated Instance or a Dedicated Host, change the
instance’s tenancyattribute to dedicatedor host, respectively. For more information, see Amazon
EC2 Dedicated Hosts.
=== Page 81 ===
Amazon EC2 cost optimization guideline
To optimizethe cost of Amazon EC2 instances, combinethe available purchase options.
Each Amazon EC2 pricing model provides a different set of benefits. As a general guideline, the recommended
way to optimize the cost of EC2 instances is to combine the available purchase options.
Specifically, start by identifying the steady-state workloads in your application portfolio and run them on EC2
instances that use the Reserved Instance or Savings Plans pricing option.
Next, for your stateful spiky workloads, choose EC2 instances that use the On-Demand Instance pricing plan.
Finally, use Spot Instances for your fault-tolerant, flexible, stateless workloads.
The Amazon EC2 cost optimize chart shows Reserved Instancesor Savings Plansbeing used for known, steady-
state workloads. They remaining consistent through the timeframe. On-Demand Instancesfor new or stateful
spiky workloads are inconsistent through the timeframe. Spot Instancesare used to scale for fault-tolerant,
flexible, stateless workloads a few times during the timeframe.
The Amazon EC2 cost optimize chart shows Reserved Instancesor Savings Plansbeing used for known, steady-
state workloads. They remain consistent through the timeframe. On-Demand Instancesfor new or spiky
workloads and Spot Instancesfor fault-tolerant, flexible, stateless workloads that are inconsistent through the
same timeframe.
=== Page 82 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon EC2 pricing models include On-
Amazon EC2 Demand Instances, Reserved Instances,
Savings Plans, Spot Instances, and
pricing options
Dedicated Hosts
• Per-second billing is available only for
On-Demand Instances, Reserved
Instances, and Spot Instances that run
Amazon Linux or Ubuntu
• Use a combination of Reserved Instances,
Savings Plans, On-Demand Instances, and
Spot Instances to optimize Amazon EC2
compute costs
=== Page 83 ===
Café lab: Creating a Dynamic Website
for the Café (Dynamic website lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize hat you will do in the lab, and you will find the detailed
instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 84 ===
The evolving café architecture: version 2
Architecture
Business reason for update Technical requirements/ architecture update
Version
V1 Static website for small business Host the website on Amazon S3.
V2 Add online ordering Deploy a web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce effort to maintain the Separate web and database layers. Migrate database to
database and secure its data Amazon RDS on a private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon VPC features to configure and secure public and
application private subnets.
V5 Create separate access mechanisms Add IAM groups and attach resource polices to application
based on role resources. Add IAM users to groups based on role.
V6 Ensure the website can handle an Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
expected increase in traffic instances and distribute compute and database instances
across 2 availability zones.
V7 Module 11 info
V8 Module 14 info
Cafe customers have responded well to the new website. Customers now frequently ask if they can use the
website to place orders. The cafe owners and staff think that adding ordering functionality is a good strategy,
but they want to make sure they do it in a way that delights their customers. The owners and staff have some
ideas on how they want the features to work, and Sofia knows they need a cloud infrastructure that supports
dynamic content. She and Nikhil recognize that things are likely to change as they gain experience and see how
customers respond. They want to have the flexibility to experiment but limit the risk to the live website.
=== Page 85 ===
Dynamic website • In this lab, you will do the following:
lab tasks
• Connect an IDE to an existing EC2 instance
• Analyze the EC2 instance environment and
confirm web server accessibility
• Install a web application on an EC2 instance
that also uses AWS Systems Manager
Parameter Store
• Test the web application
• Create an AMI
• Deploy a second copy of the web application to
another AWS Region
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 86 ===
Debrief: Dynamic website lab
• In this lab, where did you find detailed information about your EC2
instance that is already launched and hosting your café website?
• In this lab, the café website is already running well on an existing
EC2 instance. What did you do to duplicate the instance to the
Oregon Region?
=== Page 87 ===
Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to compute
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles to compute resources.
=== Page 88 ===
AWS Well-Architected pillars
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module including security, performance efficiency, cost
optimization, and sustainability. Find the complete set of best practices by pillar on the Well-Architected
Framework website. A link is provided in the content resources section of your online course.
=== Page 89 ===
Best practice approach: Infrastructure protection –Protecting compute
Best practice
Automate compute protection.
Infrastructure protection is an important best practice under the security pillar. Before architecting any
workload, foundational practices that influence security should be in place. Infrastructure protection is divided
into two categories: Network protection and compute protection. The compute protection section asks the
question: How do you protect your compute resources? Compute resources in your workload require multiple
layers of defense to help protect from external and internal threats. Compute resources include EC2 instances
and all the configurations you learned about them in this module.
Automate compute protection: Automate your protective compute mechanisms including vulnerability
management, reduction in attack surface, and management of resources. The automation will help you invest
time in securing other aspects of your workload, and reduce the risk of human error.
In this module, you learned about a number of Amazon EC2 features and configuration choices that support this
best practice, such as using the following:
• EC2 Image Builder, which can reduce your exposure to security vulnerabilities
• User data scripts to automate commands when launching an instance
• Silver (mutable) AMIs and golden (immutable) AMIs, when possible, to lock down security configurations in
your instances
=== Page 90 ===
Best practice approach: Infrastructure protection –Protecting networks
Best practice
Control traffic at all layers.
The protecting network section of the security pillar asks the question: How do you securely operate your
workload? To operate your workload securely, you must apply overarching security best practices to every area
of connectivity. In AWS, separating different workloads by account, based on their function and compliance or
data sensitivity requirements, is a recommended approach.
Control traffic at all layers: When architecting your network topology, you should examine the connectivity
requirements of each component. For example, if a component requires internet accessibility (inbound and
outbound), connectivity to virtual private clouds (VPCs), edge services, and external data centers. A VPC lets you
to define your network topology that spans an AWS Region with a private IPv4 address range that you set or an
IPv6 address range that AWS selects. You should apply multiple controls with a defense in depth approach for
both inbound and outbound traffic, including the use of security groups (stateful inspection firewall).
In this module, you learned the each EC2 instance is protected by a security group. The security group defines
which ports network traffic is permitted on. You can configure this based on your workload connectivity needs.
=== Page 91 ===
Best practice approach: Compute and hardware
Best practices
Scale the best compute options for your
workload.
Configure and right-size compute resources.
The performance efficiency pillar focuses on structured and streamlined allocation of IT and computing
resources. Architectures might use different compute choices for various components and permit different
features to improve performance. Choosing the wrong compute choice for an architecture can lead to lower
performance efficiency. The compute and hardware section of the performance efficiency pillar shares guidance
and best practices on how to identify and optimize compute options for performance efficiency in the cloud.
The optimal compute choice for a particular workload can vary based on application design, usage patterns, and
configuration settings.
Scale the best compute options for your workload: Selecting the most appropriate compute option for your
workload lets you improve performance, reduce unnecessary infrastructure costs, and lower the operational
efforts required to maintain your workload. The benefits of this best practice can make your workloads more
resource efficientby identifying the compute requirements and evaluating against the options available.
Configure and right-size compute resources: Configure and right-size compute resources to match your
workload’s performance requirements and avoid under or over-utilized resources. The benefits of right-sizing
compute resources ensures optimal operation in the cloud by avoiding over-provisioning and under-
provisioning resources. Properly sizing compute resources typically results in better performance and enhanced
customer experience, while also lowering cost.
In this module, you learned about a number of Amazon EC2 features and configuration choices that support
these best practices, such as choosing the following:
• AMIs that are pre-configured with required software and support the usage of your root storage type
• Instance type and size for your computing workloads
• Storage type (Amazon EBS or Instance store) and size for your root volumes and data volumes
=== Page 92 ===
Best practice approach: Cost effective resourcing
Best practices
Select the correct resource type, size, and
number.
Select the best pricing model.
Applying cost effective resourcing is part of the Cost optimization pillar of the Well-Architected Framework.
Appropriate service selection helps you reduce usage and costs. For example, a reporting process might take 5
hours to run on a smaller server but 1 hour to run on a larger server that is twice as expensive. Both servers give
you the same outcome, but the smaller server incurs more cost over time. A well-architected workload uses the
most cost-effective resources, which can have a significant and positive economic impact.
Select the correct resource type, size, and number: By selecting the best resource type, size, and number of
resources, you meet the technical requirements with the lowest cost resource. Right-sizing activities takes into
account all of the resources of a workload, all of the attributes of each individual resource, and the effort
involved in the right-sizing operation. Right-sizing can be an iterative process, initiated by changes in usage
patterns and external factors, such as AWS price drops or new AWS resource types.
Select the best pricing model: Consider the requirements of the workload components and understand the
potential pricing models. AWS has multiplepricing modelsthat let you pay for your resources in the most cost-
effective way that suits your organization’s needs.
In this module, you learned about a number of Amazon EC2 features and configuration choices that support
these best practices.
• By right sizing the instance type and storage size for your computing workloads, you can optimize you costs
so that you can save money.
• Choosing the purchasing model or reserved capacity model that best fits the workload’s use case can save
you money. AWS purchasing models include On-Demand instances, Reserved instances, Amazon EC2 Spot
instances, and Savings Plans. AWS reserved or dedicated capacity model includes On-Demand Capacity
Reservations, Amazon EC2 Capacity Blocks for ML, and Dedicated Host.
=== Page 93 ===
Best practice approach: Hardware and services
Best practices
Use the minimum amount of hardware to
meet your needs.
Use instance types with the least impact.
Use managed services.
The sustainability pillar focuses on minimizing the environmental impacts of running cloud workloads. The
hardware services section of this pillar looks for opportunities to select the most efficient hardware and
services for your individual workload.
The following question focuses on these considerations for sustainability: How do you select and use cloud
hardware and services in your architecture to support your sustainability goals?
The answer is to look for opportunities to reduce workload sustainability impacts. This can be done by
minimizing the amount of hardware needed to provision and deploy and by selecting the most efficient
hardware and services for your individual workload.
Consider the following best practices for your hardware services:
Use the minimum amount of hardware to meet your needs: Use the minimum amount of hardware for your
workload to efficiently meet your business needs. Right-sizing your cloud resources helps reduce a workload’s
environmental impact, save money, and maintain performance benchmarks. The AWS Cloud provides the
flexibility to modify computing resources dynamically. Therefore, you can make frequent changes to your
workload to meet your business needs.
Use instance types with the least impact: Continually monitor and use new instance types to take advantage of
energy efficiency improvements. Using efficient instances in cloud workloads is crucial for lower resource usage
and cost-effectiveness. Continually monitor the release of new instance types and take advantage of energy
efficiency improvements, including those instance types designed to support specific workloads such as
machine learning training and inference, and video transcoding.
Use managed services: Use managed services to operate more efficiently in the cloud. Using managed services
shifts the responsibility to AWS for maintaining high utilization and sustainability optimization of the deployed
hardware. AWS has insights across millions of customers that can help drive new innovations and efficiencies.
Managed services also remove the operational and administrative burden of maintaining a service, which lets
your team to have more time and focus on innovation. To use managed services, first you need to inventory
=== Page 94 ===
your workload for services and components. Then, you assess and identify components that can be
replaced by managed services.
In this module, you learned about a number of Amazon EC2 features and configuration choices that
support these best practices.
• AWS offers two different storage options depending on your workload requirements.
• Use instance store volumes if you don’t need persistent storage and need faster
computing time.
• Use Amazon EBS if you need persistent storage.
• AWS offers AMIs that are base and AMIs preconfigured. You can also customize AMIs save them
to launch instances from them.
• AWS offers instance types that are designed to meet the needs of specific use cases. These
instance types include: General purpose, compute optimized, storage optimized and more. Each
instance type offers a range in sizes that you can choose from to meet your business needs.
In this module, you also learned about the variety of compute services that AWS offers including
managed services like AWS Batch and AWS Outposts.
=== Page 95 ===
Key takeaways:
• Automate compute protection.
Applying AWS
• Scale the best compute options for your
Well-Architected
workload.
Framework
principles to • Configure and right-size compute
compute resource.
• Select the correct resource type, size, and
number.
• Select the best pricing model.
• Use the minimum amount of hardware to
meet your needs.
• Use instance types with the least impact.
=== Page 96 ===
Module wrap-up
Adding a Compute Layer Using Amazon EC2
This section summarizes what you learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 97 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Identify how Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) can be used in
an architecture.
• Explain the value of using Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) to accelerate
the creation and repeatability of infrastructure.
• Recommend EC2 instance types based on requirements.
• Recommend storage solutions for Amazon EC2.
• Recognize how to configure Amazon EC2 instances with user data.
• Describe EC2 pricing options and make recommendations based on cost.
• Launch an Amazon EC2 instance.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing a
compute layer with Amazon EC2.
=== Page 98 ===
Considerations for the cafe
Discuss how the café labs in this module
answered the key questions and decisions
that were presented at the start of this
module for the café business.
=== Page 99 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 100 ===
Sample exam question
A solutions architect has a workload that will run for at least 1 year uninterrupted in the same Region. The workload will remain
steady, except for occasional spikes during peak seasons. During these spikes, the size of the instance type might need to be
increased to handle heavier workloads. However, the instance family will remain the same with any instance size increase. Which
pricing option should be used to purchase the instance at the lowest cost?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• At least 1 year uninterrupted in the same Region
• Workload will remain steady
• Instance family will remain the same
• Lowest cost
=== Page 101 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
A solutions architect has a workload that will run for at least 1 year uninterrupted in the same Region. The workload will remain
steady, except for occasional spikes during peak seasons. During these spikes, the size of the instance type might need to be
increased to handle heavier workloads. However, the instance family will remain the same with any instance size increase. Which
pricing option should be used to purchase the instance at the lowest cost?
Choice Response
A Dedicated instance
B Compute Saving Plans instance
C EC2 Instance Savings Plans instance
D On-Demand instance
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 102 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is C.
Choice Response
C EC2 Instance Savings Plans instance
Dedicated instances (choice A) are among the more expensive purchasing options. They are physically isolated
at a hardware level. You might use these for workloads that require physical isolation of the hardware for
compliance or regulatory reasons. This isn’t required in the scenario.
Compute Saving Plans instances (choice B) could fit this use case however, it doesn’t offer the lowest costs
among the available options. Compute Saving Plans instances offer you flexibility to switch the instance’s Region
and the instance’s type. Neither are required in this scenario.
On-Demand instances (choice D) aren’t the preferred pricing option for workloads that will last a year or longer.
For such workloads, use a Savings Plan option or a Reserved instance.
EC2 Instance Savings Plan instances (choice C) let you change the size of the instance within the same instance
family without affecting your costs. This satisfies all the requirements in this scenario and provides the lowest
prices in exchange for commitment to usage of individual instance families in a Region.
=== Page 103 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.