# Clean Text Extracted from: M06SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:31:54
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 06 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 6: Adding a Database Layer 4
=== Page 4 ===
Adding a Database Layer
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Adding a Database Layer module. This module focuses on database types and services offered
by Amazon Web Services (AWS).
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Adding a Database Layer
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the
following:
objectives
• Compare database types and services offered by
Amazon Web Services (AWS).
• Explain when to use Amazon Relational Database
Service (Amazon RDS).
• Describe the advanced features of Amazon RDS.
• Explain when to use Amazon DynamoDB.
• Identify AWS purpose-built database services.
• Describe how to migrate data into AWS
databases.
• Design and deploy a database server.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing a database layer.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demo
• Database layer considerations • Amazon RDS Automated Backup and
Read Replicas
• Amazon RDS
Knowledge checks
• Amazon RDS Proxy connection
management • 10-question knowledge check
• Amazon DynamoDB • Sample exam question
• Purpose-built databases
• Migrating data into AWS databases
• Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to the database
layer
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
This module includes a recorded demo that is introduced in your student guide.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question to discuss in class.
The next slide describes the labs in this module.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab Challenge (Café) lab
• Creating an Amazon RDS • Migrating a Database to
Database Amazon RDS
This module includes the hands-on labs listed. There is a guided lab where you will receive step-by-step
instructions and a café (challenge) lab where you will work on updating the architecture for the café. Additional
information about each lab is included in the student guide where the lab takes place, and the lab environment
provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to evaluate the available database
designing a database options before selecting a data
layer:
management solution so that I can
optimize performance.
• I need to secure my infrastructure
effectively so that data is durable and
safe from threats.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module. Also remember that
the cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific
use case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an
example business need, and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Database layer considerations
Adding a Database Layer
This section provides an overview of what to consider when selecting a database.
=== Page 11 ===
Database considerations
Scalability Storage requirements Data characteristics Durability
How much Will the database What is your data What level of data
throughput is need to be sized in model? What are durability,
needed? gigabytes, your data access availability, and
Will it scale? terabytes, or patterns? recoverability is
petabytes of data? Do you need low required?
latency? Do regulatory
obligations apply?
As an architect, you will often need to choose between different database types when you consider which type
will best handle a particular workload. Before you choose a database, there are some key considerations that
should inform your decision-making process.
Scalability
Having a properly scaled database is important. With traditional on-premises databases, the impact to database
performance while it scales up can be unpredictable and might require downtime. If you underprovision your
database, your applications might stop working. If you overprovision your database, you increase your upfront
costs by procuring resources that you do not need, which violates the cost-optimization principle of the AWS
Well-Architected Framework.
Ideally, you would choose a database solution that has the resources to handle the needed throughput at
launch and that can also be scaled up later if your throughput needs to increase.
Storage requirements
Consider the storage requirements of your workload. How large must the database be to handle your data
requirements? Does it need to store gigabytes, terabytes, or petabytes? Different database architectures
support different maximum data capacities. Some database designs are ideal for traditional applications while
others are ideal for caching or session management.
Data characteristics
Consider what you need to store as you select a database. The core of any database choice includes the
characteristics of the data that you need to store, retrieve, analyze, and work with. These characteristics include
your data model (is it relational, structured or semi-structured, using a highly connected dataset, or
timeseries?), data access (how do you need to access your data?), the extent to which you need low-latency
data, and whether there is a particular data record size you have in mind.
=== Page 12 ===
Durability
Data durability refers to the assurance that your data will not be lost, and data availability refers to
your ability to access your data when you want to.
What level of data durability and data availability do you need? If the data you will store is
absolutely critical to your business, you should choose a database solution that stores multiple
redundant copies of your data across multiple geographically separated physical locations. This
solution will usually result in an increased cost, so it is important to balance your business needs
with cost considerations.
Another important consideration is whether data residency or regulatory obligations apply to your
data. For example, are there regional data privacy laws that you must comply with? If so, choose a
database solution that can support compliance.
=== Page 13 ===
Relational and non-relational databases
Features Relational Databases Non-Relational Databases
Variety of structure models (key-value pairs,
Structure Tabular form of columns and rows
document, or graph-based)
Schema Strict schema rules Flexible schemas
Ease of use, data integrity, reduced data
Benefits Flexibility, scalability, and high performance
storage, and common language (SQL)
When a caching layer is needed to improve read
When migrating an on-premises
performance, when storing JSON documents,
Use Case relational workload or if your workload
or when a single digit millisecond data retrieval
involves online transactional processing
is needed
Optimized for structured data stored in Optimized for fast access to structured, semi-
Optimization tables; supports complex one-time structured, or unstructured data with high read
queries through joins and write throughput
The world has changed, and the one-size-fits-all approach of using relational databases for every application no
longer works. Relational databases still play an important role in application design and functionality, but a
number of purpose-built databases are rising in popularity. Modern applications must consider social, mobile,
Internet of Things (IoT), and global access. Purpose-built database models are designed from the ground up to
quickly and efficiently perform the specific functions that these applications require.
In a relational database management system (RDBMS), data is stored in a tabular form of columns and rows,
and data is queried by using SQL. If your use case lends itself well to strict schema rules, where the schema
structure is well defined and does not need to change often, a relational database would be a good choice.
When migrating to an on-premises relational workload or if your workload involves online transactional
processing, this type of database is suitable. However, if your application needs extreme read/write capacity, a
relational database might not be the right choice. A relational database can be the best low-effort solution for
many use cases.
Relational databases transactions are ACID-compliant. This means that they help ensure data integrity by
providing transactions that are atomic, consistent, isolated, and durable. Atomic transactions mean they should
be treated as a single logical operation on the data. Consistent transactions always act or behave in the same
way. Isolated transactions refer to being carried out concurrently, but the system state should be the same as if
the transactions were carried out serially. A durable transaction means that once a transaction is committed, its
effects should be permanent even in the event of a system failure.
=== Page 14 ===
Non-relational databases are sometimes called NoSQL databases. They are purpose-built databases
for a variety of data models, including key-value, graph, document, in-memory, and search. They can
store structured data, such as relational database records; semi-structured data, such as JSON
documents; and unstructured data, such as photo files or email messages. This type of database has
flexible schemas, where each object can have a different structure. When a caching layer is needed
to improve read performance, when storing JSON documents, or when a single digit millisecond
data retrieval is needed, a non-relational database is a suitable option. Non-relational databases are
optimized for specific data models and access patterns that help enable higher performance instead
of trying to achieve the functionality of relational databases.
Both relational and non-relational databases can scale horizontally and vertically. For example,
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) can have read replicas along with relational
scaling horizontally. Redis can scale vertically with bigger instance types.
=== Page 15 ===
Amazon database options
Relational databases Non-relational databases
Amazon RDS Amazon Amazon Amazon
DynamoDB Neptune ElastiCache
Managed database service that Variety of services designed for
provides seven familiar database databases such as key-value, graph,
engines to choose from, including and in-memory
Amazon Aurora
This module will explain these database options. The purpose of this slide is to provide an overview:
• The main relational database service option from AWS is Amazon RDS. It is a managed service that you can
use to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud. With Amazon RDS, you can choose from
Amazon Aurora with MySQL compatibility, Amazon Aurora with PostgreSQL compatibility, Amazon RDS for
MySQL, Amazon RDS for MariaDB, Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL, Amazon RDS for Oracle, and Amazon RDS for
SQL Server. Amazon RDS is used for transactional applications like enterprise resource planning (ERP),
customer relationship management (CRM), and ecommerce applications to store structured data.
• There are multiple non-relational database service options. Amazon DynamoDB for key-value databases,
Amazon Neptune for graph databases, and Amazon ElastiCache for in-memory databases are a few of them.
These are purpose-built databases designed to quickly and efficiently perform the specific functions these
applications require.
=== Page 16 ===
Less responsibility with managed AWS database services
Host Database in a
Host Database on Host Database in
Tasks Managed AWS Database
Premises Amazon EC2
Service
Power, HVAC, and Network x
Rack and Stack x
Server Maintenance x
OS Installation x
OS Patches x
Database Installation x x
Database Patches x x
Database Backups x x
High Availability x x
Scaling x x
Application Optimization x x x
The table shows the tasks that you are responsible for based on where the database is hosted:
• When your database is on premises, the database administrator is responsible for everything from
application and query optimization to setting up the hardware. The administrator also handles patching the
hardware and setting up networking, power, and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC).
• If you move to a database that runs on an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance, you no
longer manage the underlying hardware or data center operations. AWS handles the maintenance of the
physical data center environment, and the operating system (OS) is pre-installed on the EC2 instance that you
launch. However, you are still responsible for scaling, patching the OS, and managing all software and backup
operations.
• If the database is hosted in an AWS managed database offering, such as Amazon RDS or Aurora, AWS is
responsible for handling common and repetitive database administration tasks. You are responsible only for
optimizing your queries and making sure that the database layer works efficiently for your application. These
solutions provide high availability, scalability, and database backups as built-in options that you can configure.
Your responsibility decreases as you move away from hosting your database on premises to hosting it in
managed AWS database services.
=== Page 17 ===
Database capacity planning
Designing with the end goal in mind
1. Analyze current storage capacity.
2. Predict capacity requirements.
3. Determine if horizontal scaling, vertical scaling, or a combination
is needed.
Vertical Horizontal
scaling scaling
Database capacity planning is a process in which you consider the current and future capacity as you select and
update your database resources. The goal is to adjust and optimize database resources based on usage patterns
and forecasts. Continuously monitor to determine whether the existing infrastructure can sustain the
anticipated workload. If it can’t, you will need to evaluate the cost dynamics of scaling up the infrastructure.
There are two ways to scale databases: vertically and horizontally. Scaling vertically involves expanding the
resources that the existing server uses in order to increase its capacity. This complex and time-consuming
process includes upgrading memory, storage, or processing power.Usually this means that the database will be
down for some period of time. Horizontal scaling involves increasing the number of servers that the database
runs on, which decreases the load on the server. The compute capacity is added while the database is running,
which usually means that this scaling happens without downtime.
=== Page 18 ===
Key takeaways: • When you choose a database, consider
scalability, storage requirements, data
Database layer
characteristics, cost, and durability requirements.
considerations
Database capacity planning is also a
consideration.
• Relational databases have strict schema rules,
scale vertically, provide data integrity, and work
well for structured data stored in tables.
• Non-relational databases have flexible schemas,
scale horizontally, provide higher scalability and
flexibility, and work well for semi-structured and
unstructured data.
• With AWS managed database services, you are
responsible only for optimizing your application.
=== Page 19 ===
Amazon RDS
Adding a Database Layer
This section describes the characteristics and use cases of Amazon RDS and Aurora.
=== Page 20 ===
Amazon Relational Database Service
•Is a managed relational database service to
deploy and scale relational databases
•Supports multiple database engines
•Uses Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon
EBS) volumes for database and log storage
Amazon RDS
Why do you want to run a managed relational database in the AWS Cloud? Because AWS takes over many of the
difficult and tedious management tasks of a relational database. Amazon RDS is a fully managed relational
database service that you can use to set up, operate, and scale relational databases in the cloud.
As a managed service, Amazon RDS automates routine database tasks, such as provisioning, patching, backup,
recovery, failure detection, and repair. It removes inefficient and time-consuming database administration tasks
without needing to provision infrastructure or maintain software. With Amazon RDS, you can choose from
Aurora with MySQL compatibility, Aurora with PostgreSQL compatibility, RDS for MySQL, RDS for MariaDB, RDS
for PostgreSQL, RDS for Oracle, and RDS for SQL Server.
Amazon RDS uses Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) volumes for database and log storage. You can scale
the storage capacity allocated to your database instance.
=== Page 21 ===
Benefits of Amazon RDS
Lower administrative
Highly scalable Available and durable Secure and compliant
burden
You don't need to You can scale up or You can configure You can isolate your
provision your down the compute automated backups, database in your own
infrastructure or and memory database snapshots, virtual network.
install and maintain resources powering and automatic host
database software. your deployment. replacement.
The following are some of the characteristics of Amazon RDS:
• Lower administrative burden: With Amazon RDS, there is no need to provision infrastructure or to install
and maintain database software. Amazon RDS provides a single console and API for managing all your
relational databases, and the security and monitoring is built in.
• Highly scalable: You can scale your Amazon RDS database’s compute and storage resources with only a few
mouse clicks or an API call. Amazon RDS provides a selection of instance types that are optimized to fit
different relational database use cases. Instance types comprise varying combinations of CPU, memory,
storage, and networking capacity and give you the flexibility to choose the appropriate mix of resources for
your database. This module will cover Amazon RDS scaling in more detail.
• Available and durable: With Amazon RDS, you can use replication to enhance availability and reliability for
production workloads. By using the Multi-AZ deployment option, you can run mission-critical workloads
with high availability and built-in automated failover from your primary database to a synchronously
replicated secondary database. By using read replicas, you can scale out beyond the capacity of a single
database deployment for read-heavy database workloads.
• Secure and compliant: You can also use Amazon RDS to run your database instances in Amazon Virtual
Private Cloud (Amazon VPC). By using Amazon VPC, you can isolate your database instances and connect to
your existing IT infrastructure through an industry-standard-encrypted IPsec virtual private network (VPN).
You can configure firewall settings and control network access to your database instances. Many Amazon
RDS engine types offer encryption at rest, and all engines support encryption in transit. Amazon RDS offers a
wide range of compliance readiness, including Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(HIPAA)eligibility.
=== Page 22 ===
Amazon RDS database architecture
Amazon RDS instances are
isolated database
environments that can
contain multiple user-
created databases.
You have the following Amazon RDS uses
seven database engine EBS volumes for
options: database and log
Aurora with MySQL storage.
compatibility, Aurora with
PostgreSQL compatibility,
RDS for MySQL, RDS for
PostgreSQL, RDS for
MariaDB, RDS for Oracle,
or RDS for SQL Server.
Amazon RDS provides a way for you to deploy relational database management systems with the engine and
deployment environment of your choice. With Amazon RDS, you have the choice to deploy on any of seven
managed database engines in the cloud, including Amazon Aurora with MySQL compatibility, Amazon Aurora
with PostgreSQL compatibility, Amazon RDS for MariaDB, Amazon RDS for MySQL, Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL,
Amazon RDS for Oracle, and Amazon RDS for SQL Server.
• Amazon RDS facilitates the deployment and maintenance of relational databases in the cloud. It manages a
specialized EC2 instance that provides computing capacity.
Amazon RDS instances are isolated database environments that can contain multiple user-created
databases.Each database contains your organization's data.
• The database engine allows for storing, sorting, and retrieving your data.
Amazon RDS uses EBS volumes for database and log storage. You can scale the storage capacity allocated to
your database instance.
=== Page 23 ===
Architecture diagram of a database layer
This architecture diagram shows the EC2 instance and the Amazon RDS instance inside an Amazon Virtual
Private Cloud (Amazon VPC).
A Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) is an isolated virtual environment in which you can launch AWS resources. You will
learn more about VPCs elsewhere in this course.
In this module, you will get hands-on experience creating a database layer by using Amazon RDS. You will
choose a database engine when launching the database.
=== Page 24 ===
Aurora
•Is a relational database management system
(RDBMS) built for the cloud with full MySQL
and PostgreSQL compatibility
•Is managed by Amazon RDS
•Provides high performance and availability
at one-tenth of the cost
Aurora
•Delivers Multi-AZ deployments with Aurora
Replicas
Aurora is a MySQL and PostgreSQL-compatibleRDBMS built for the cloud:
• Aurora is up to five times faster than standardMySQL databases and three times faster than standard
PostgreSQL databases.
• It provides the security, availability, and reliability of commercial databases at approximately one-tenth the
cost.
• Aurora is fully managed by Amazon RDS, which automates time-consuming administration tasks such as
hardware provisioning, database setup, patching, and backups.
• Aurora features a distributed, fault-tolerant, self-healing storage system that auto scales up to 64 TB per
database instance.
• It delivers high performance and availability with up to 15 low-latency read replicas, point-in-time recovery,
continuous backup to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3), and replication across three Availability
Zones.
=== Page 25 ===
Aurora database clusters
An Aurora
database cluster
includes one or
more database
instances and a
cluster volume
that manages An Auroracluster
the data for volumeis a virtual
those database database storage
instances. volume that spans
multiple Availability
Zones, and each
Availability Zone has
a copy of the DB
cluster data.
Image description:An Amazon Aurora database cluster showing a Primary instance in Availability Zone 1, and
one replica instance in both Availability Zone 2 and 3. Each instance connects to a set of EBS volumes in the
same Availability zone. The Primary instance copies its database to its EBS volumes and those are copied to EBS
volumes for each of the database replicas. The EBS volumes are in the Aurora Cluster volume which spans
across all three Availability Zones. End description.
An Auroradatabase clusterconsists of one or more database (DB) instances and a cluster volume that manages
the data for those database instances. An Auroracluster volumeis a virtual database storage volume that spans
multiple Availability Zones, and each Availability Zone has a copy of the database cluster data. Two types of
database instances make up an Aurora database cluster:
• A primary database instance supports read and write operations and performs all of the data modifications
to the cluster volume. Each Aurora DB cluster has one primary DB instance.
• An Aurora replicaconnects to the same storage volume as the primary DB instance and supports only read
operations. Each Aurora database cluster can have up to 15 Aurora replicas in addition to the primary DB
instance. Maintain high availability by locating Aurora replicas in separate Availability Zones. Aurora
automatically fails over to an Aurora replica in case the primary DB instance becomes unavailable. You can
specify the failover priority for Aurora replicas. Aurora replicas can also offload read workloads from the
primary DB instance.
=== Page 26 ===
Aurora Serverless
• Is an on-demand auto scaling configuration
for Aurora
• Provides hands-off capacity management
• Provides fine-grained scaling
• Is suitable for the following:
• Variable workloads
• New applications
• Development and testing
• Capacity planning
Amazon Aurora Serverlessis an on-demand, auto scaling configuration for Aurora where the database
automatically starts up, shuts down, and scales capacity up or down based on your application's needs. This
configuration helps you manage and provision database capacity.
With Aurora Serverless, you can run your database in the cloud without managing any database instances. You
can also use Aurora Serverless v2 instances along with provisioned instances in your existing or new database
clusters.
The granularity of scaling in Aurora Serverless v2 helps you to match capacity closely to your database's needs.
Aurora Serverless v2 is particularly useful for the following use cases:
• Variable workloads: You're running workloads that have sudden and unpredictable increases in activity. With
Aurora Serverless v2, your database automatically scales capacity to meet the needs of the application's peak
load and scales back down when the surge of activity is over.
• New applications: You're deploying a new application and you're unsure about the DB instance size you
need. By using Aurora Serverless v2, you can set up a cluster with one or many DB instances and have the
database auto scale to the capacity requirements of your application.
• Development and testing:With Aurora Serverless v2, you can create DB instances with a low minimum
capacity. You can set the maximum capacity high enough that those DB instances can still run substantial
workloads without running low on memory. When the database isn't in use, all of the DB instances scale
down to avoid unnecessary charges.
• Capacity planning: Suppose that you usually adjust your database capacity or verify the optimal database
capacity for your workload by modifying the DB instance classes of all the DB instances in a cluster. With
Aurora Serverless v2, you can avoid this administrative overhead. You can determine the appropriate
minimum and maximum capacity by running the workload and checking how much the DB instances actually
scale. You can modify existing DB instances from provisioned to Aurora Serverless v2 or from Aurora
Serverless v2 to provisioned. You don't need to create a new cluster or a new DB instance in such cases.
=== Page 27 ===
Amazon RDS use case: Banking transactions
Transaction Transaction
Transaction ID Date Transaction Type
Description Amount
0079834514 2023-11-05 Utility Withdrawal 100.00
0079834513 2023-11-05 Employer name Direct deposit 1000.00
0079834512 2023-11-04 Interest payment Deposit 0.07
Amazon RDS is suitable for online transaction processing (OLTP) transactions. OLTP stores and updates
transactional data reliably and efficiently in high volumes.
One use case for Amazon RDS is for transactional tables of data: for example, banking transactions. When the
banking customer makes a deposit or withdrawal, they are accessing the banking Aurora database, which is
hosted on banking application EC2 instances.
The table shows a few rows of a banking customer’s checking account. Each transaction has a unique identifier.
Data such as the transaction date, description, type, and amount are recorded for each transaction.
=== Page 28 ===
Amazon RDS EC2 instance types and sizing
• General purpose (T4g, T3, M6g, and M5)
• Memory-optimized (R6g, R5, X2g, and X1E)
Instance type Memory (GiB) vCPU
db.m6g.large 8 2
db.r6g.large 16 2
If m6g.large is the db.m6g.xlarge 16 4
instance that needs
an upgrade, first db.r6g.xlarge 32 4
identify the issue.
Does it need more rg6.large would
memory or CPU? mg6.xlarge would provide provide the
the CPU upgrade.
memory upgrade.
Amazon RDS provides a selection of instance types optimized to fit different relational database use cases.
Instance types comprise varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity and give you
the flexibility to choose the appropriate mix of resources for your database. Each instance type includes several
instance sizes, which gives you the ability to scale your database to the requirements of your target workload.
Not every instance type is supported for every database engine, version, edition, or Region:
• General purpose Amazon RDS instance types are suitable for CPU-intensive workloads and workloads with
moderate CPU usage that experience temporary spikes in use. The T and M family are general purpose
instance types.
• Memory-optimized Amazon RDS instance types are suitable for query-intensive workloads or high
connection counts. The R and X family are memory-optimized instance types.
When it comes to upgrading instance types, first determine if the workload is memory intensive or compute
intensive. Identify which resource is constrained, and upgrade based on that deficit.
=== Page 29 ===
Amazon RDS security best practices
Use SSL or TLS connections
Run your DB instancein a
with database instances
VPC for the greatest possible
running certain database
network access control.
engines.
Use AWS Identity and Access
Encrypt database instances
Management (IAM) policies
and snapshots at rest with an
to assign permissions for
AWS Key Management
managing Amazon
Service (AWS KMS) key.
RDSresources.
Use security groups to Use the security features of
control connecting IP your database engine to
addresses and resources. control database access.
Security is a shared responsibility between you and AWS. AWS is responsible for security of the cloud, which
means that AWS protects the infrastructure that runs Amazon RDS. Meanwhile, you are responsible for security
in the cloud.
You can manage access to yourAmazon RDSresources and your databases on a databaseinstance. The method
you use to manage access depends on the type of task the user needs to perform with Amazon RDS. The
following are recommended security best practices:
• Run your DBinstancein a custom and private VPC based on the Amazon VPC service for the greatest possible
network access control.
• Use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies to assign permissions that determine who is
allowed to manageAmazon RDSresources. For example, you can use IAM to determine who is allowed to
create, describe, modify, and delete DBinstances, tag resources, or modify security groups.
• Use security groups to control which IP addresses or EC2 instances can connect to your databases on a
DBinstance. When you first create a DBinstance, its firewall prevents any database access except through
rules specified by an associated security group.
• Use SSL or TLS connections with DB instances running the MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, Oracle, or Microsoft
SQL Server database engines.
• UseAmazon RDSencryption to secure yourdatabase instancesand snapshots at rest.Amazon
RDSencryption uses the industry standard AES-256 encryption algorithm to encrypt your data on the server
that hosts your DBinstance. For an Amazon RDS encrypted database instance, all logs, backups, and
snapshots are encrypted. Amazon RDS uses an AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) key to encrypt
these resources.
• Use the security features of your database engine to control who can log in to the databases on a
databaseinstance. These features work as if the database were on your local network.
=== Page 30 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon RDS is a managed relational database
service that can deploy familiar database
Amazon RDS
engines.
• Aurora is a managed relational database engine
built for the cloud. Aurora Serverless provides
support for Aurora on-demand auto scaling.
• Amazon RDS provides a selection of instance
types that are optimized to fit different
relational database use cases.
• Differences in performance, scalability, failover,
storage, high availability, backup, and database
versions will determine which relational database
is the optimum selection.
=== Page 31 ===
Guided lab: Creating an Amazon RDS
Database (Amazon RDS lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 32 ===
Amazon RDS lab • In this lab, you will perform the following
tasks main tasks:
• Create an Amazon RDS database.
• Configure web application communication with
a database instance.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 33 ===
Debrief: Amazon RDS lab
• When you created your RDS DB instance, why did you configure it as
single database instance without a Multi-AZ deployment option?
• What did you need to do so that your application could connect to
your database?
=== Page 34 ===
Amazon RDS proxy connection
management
Adding a Database Layer
This section describes features of Amazon RDS Proxy and backing up data for RDS.
=== Page 35 ===
Amazon RDS Proxy
Fully managed, highly available database proxy for Amazon RDS
More scalable More resilient More secure
Pools and shares Reduces database Enforces IAM
database connections failover times for authentication and
for improved Aurora and Amazon stores credentials in
application scaling RDS databases by up AWS Secrets Manager
to 66 percent for
Amazon RDS Multi-
AZ databases
Amazon RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available database proxy for Amazon RDS. It is available for Aurora
with MySQL compatibility, Aurora with PostgreSQL compatibility, RDS for MariaDB, RDS for MySQL, RDS for
PostgreSQL, and RDS for SQL Server. You don’t need to provision or manage any additional infrastructure to
start using RDS Proxy:
• RDS Proxy allows applications to pool and share connections established with the database. This makes
applications more scalable.
• RDS Proxy reduces database failover times for Aurora and Amazon RDS databases. This makes applications
more available and resilient.
• RDS Proxy enforces IAM authentication and stores credentials in AWS Secrets Manager. This makes
applications more secure.
=== Page 36 ===
Connection pooling: Improved scalability
RDS Proxy is located between the
application and the database.
2 3
With RDS Proxy,
the database
receives fewer
connections so it
can work
efficiently.
This diagram is a representation of how RDS Proxy reduces the number of application connections that reach
the database layer.
1. RDS Proxy sits in the middle between the application and database.
2. Many applications, including those built on modern serverless architectures, can have thousands of open
connections from the application to the database server. Not all of these connections are always carrying
out a transaction. RDS Proxy detects these gaps in operations and reuses the connection to serve other
application connections.
3. With the help of RDS Proxy connection pooling, the database receives fewer connections so it can work
efficiently without exhausting database memory and compute resources.
You might want to consider using RDS Proxy in these situations:
• Any databaseinstancethat encounters errors regarding too many connections is a good candidate for
associating with a proxy. The proxy enables applications to open many client connections while the proxy
manages a smaller number of long-lived connections to the databaseinstance.
• Applications that typically open and close large numbers of database connections and don't have built-in
connection pooling mechanisms are good candidates for using a proxy.
• Applications that keep a large number of connections open for long periods are typically good candidates for
using a proxy. Applications in industries such as software as a service (SaaS) or ecommerce often minimize
the latency for database requests by leaving connections open. With RDS Proxy, an application can keep
more connections open than it can when connecting directly to the databaseinstance.
=== Page 37 ===
Seamless and fast failover: Improved availability
RDS Proxy
detects failovers
3 and connects to
standby
database.
Application
1 connections are
preserved.
Transactions are
2 queued during
failovers.
RDS Proxy can help make applications more resilient and transparent to database failures. RDS Proxy bypasses
DNS caches to reduce failover times by up to 66 percent forAmazon RDSMulti-AZ databases. RDS Proxy also
automatically routes traffic to a new database instance while preserving application connections. This makes
failovers more transparent for applications.
This diagram is a representation of how RDS Proxy makes failover seamless and fast.
1. When a failover happens, RDS Proxy immediately detects this event. RDS Proxy will preserve any connection
that is not actively carrying out a transaction. It will also accept new connections that come in.
2. You can use RDS Proxy to queue up any transaction that you may send when the failover is happening.
3. As soon as the new instance is available, it passes any pending transactions that are queued.
=== Page 38 ===
Streamlined authentication: Improved application
security
When you use RDS Proxy, IAM authentication is enforced, which improves security. Passwords embedded in
code are eliminated, which streamlines security.
For example, you might not have adopted IAM authentication and Secrets Manager because of the complexity
of setting up such authentication for all databaseinstances. If so, you can leave the existing authentication
methods in place and delegate the authentication to a proxy. The proxy can enforce the authentication policies
for client connections for particular applications. You can take advantage of any IAM authentication that you
already have for AWS Lambda functions instead of managing database credentials in your Lambda application
code.
This diagram is a representation of how RDS Proxy incorporates IAM and Secrets Manager to streamline
authentication.
1. The application requests an authentication token from IAM. IAM returns the authentication token to Elastic
Container Service (Amazon ECS) application container.
2. The application sends a database request to RDS Proxy connecting with the validated IAM token.
3. RDS Proxy calls Secrets Manager for the mapped identity. Secrets Manager returns the secret (username
and password) to RDS Proxy.
4. RDS Proxy sends the database request to the Aurora database instance connecting with the secret.
=== Page 39 ===
Backing up data in Amazon RDS
Features Automated Backups Database Snapshots
Back up a database instance in a
Restore a database instance to a
Use Case known state, and then restore it to that
specific point in time.
specific state.
Daily during your backup window
User-initiated (as frequently as the user
Backup Frequency (transaction logs are captured every 5
chooses)
minutes)
The default is 7 days but it can be set
to up to 35 days. The backups can be
Retention Period Kept until the user explicitly deletes it
automatically deleted after any
retention period.
Sharing with Other Cannot be shared (needs to be copied Can be shared (shared snapshots can
AWS Accounts to a manual snapshot first) be copied by other AWS accounts)
Amazon RDS provides two different options for backing up and restoring database instances:
• Automated backups: When automated backups are turned on for your database instance, Amazon RDS
automatically performs a full daily snapshot of your data during your preferred backup window and captures
transaction logs as updates to your database instance are made. When you initiate a point-in-time recovery,
transaction logs are applied to the most appropriate daily backup in order to restore your database instance
to the specific time you requested.
• Database snapshots: These are user-initiated backups that you can use to restore your database instance to
a known state as frequently as you like. These snapshots are kept until you explicitly delete them.
Automated backups and manual snapshots are stored in S3 buckets that are owned and managed by the
Amazon RDS service.
With Amazon RDS, you can copy database snapshots and database cluster snapshots. You can copy automated
backups or manual snapshots. After you copy a snapshot, the copy becomes a manual snapshot.
You can copy a snapshot within the same AWS Region, you can copy a snapshot across AWS Regions, and you
can copy a snapshot across AWS accounts.
=== Page 40 ===
Amazon RDS cross-region backups
Cross-Region copy 2
For added disaster recovery capability, you can configure your Amazon RDS database instance to replicate
snapshots and transaction logs to a destination AWS Region of your choice.
1. Snapshots and transaction logs from the primary RDS database are stored in an S3 bucket that is controlled
by Amazon RDS.
2. When backup replication is configured for a database instance, RDS initiates a cross-Region copy of all
snapshots and transaction logs on the database instance.
You can specify it to copy automated or manual database to a second AWS Region or to separate AWS
accounts.
Additionally, with Amazon RDS, you can create a read replica in a different AWS Region from the source DB
instance. You can create a read replica in a different AWS Region to do the following:
• Improve your disaster recovery capabilities.
• Scale read operations into an AWS Region closer to your users.
• Make it easier to migrate from a data center in one AWS Region to a data center in another AWS Region.
=== Page 41 ===
Amazon RDS encryption for backups
Amazon RDS can encrypt your RDSDBinstances.
• Data at rest by using AWS KMS
• Data in transit by using SSL/TLS
Steps to back up an unencrypted database:
Take a snapshot of Create a copy of Restore the
the existing the snapshot, and encrypted
unencrypted enable the snapshot to a new
database instance. encryption option. database instance.
Amazon RDS encrypted DB instances provide an additional layer of data protection by securing your data from
unauthorized access to the underlying storage.
Amazon RDScan encrypt yourRDSDBinstances:
• Encryption of data at rest: Amazon RDS encrypts your databases by using keys that you manage with AWS
KMS. For an Amazon RDS encrypted database instance, data stored at rest in the underlying storage is
encrypted, as are all logs, backups, and snapshots.
• Encryption of data in transit: Amazon RDS creates an SSL certificate and installs the certificate on the DB
instance when the instance is provisioned. Once an encrypted connection is established, data transferred
between the DB Instance and your application will be encrypted during transfer. You can also require your DB
instance to accept only encrypted connections.
After your data is encrypted,Amazon RDShandles the authentication of access and decryption of your data
transparently with minimal impact on performance.
To backup an unencrypted database, you need to create a snapshot, copy it, encrypt the copy, and then build an
encrypted database from the snapshot.
=== Page 42 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demo uses Amazon RDS.
RDS Automated
• In this demonstration, you will see how
Backup and Read
to:
Replicas
• Create a backup database schedule.
• Create a database read replica.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 43 ===
Key takeaways: • RDS Proxy is a fully managed, highly available
Amazon RDS proxy database proxy for Amazon RDS.
connection • By using a Multi-AZ approach, Amazon RDS
management synchronously replicates data to provide high
availability. There is automatic failover to the
standby instance.
• With read replicas, Amazon RDS asynchronously
replicates data to provide high scalability. The
standby instance can be manually promoted to
stand alone.
• Amazon RDS provides different options for
backing up and restoring database instances:
automated backups and database snapshots. It
offers encryption for data at rest and in transit.
=== Page 44 ===
Amazon DynamoDB
Adding a Database Layer
This section describes DynamoDB, its features, and how secondary indexing is used to derive insights from data
with maximum flexibility.
=== Page 45 ===
DynamoDB
•Is a fully managed, serverless, NoSQL
database
•Supports key-value and document data
models
•Delivers millisecond performance and can
automatically scale tables to adjust for
capacity
DynamoDB
•Is used for developing applications, mission-
critical workloads that prioritize speed,
scalability, and data durability
DynamoDB is a fully managed, serverless, NoSQL database. It supports both key-value and document data
models. DynamoDB has a flexible schema, so each item can have many different attributes. A flexible schema
gives you the ability to adapt as your business requirements change without the burden of having to redefine
the table schema as you would in relational databases.
DynamoDB can provide consistent response times in the single-digit millisecond range. The database
automatically scales tables to adjust for capacity and maintains performance with zero administration.
DynamoDB helps secure your data with encryption and continuously backs up your data for protection.
=== Page 46 ===
DynamoDB use cases
Develop software applications Create media metadata stores Scale gaming platforms
Build internet-scale Scale throughput and Build out your game
applications that support concurrency for media platform with player
user-content metadata and entertainment data, session history, and
and caches that require workloads, such as real- leaderboards for millions
high concurrency. time video streaming and of concurrent users.
interactive content.
The following are some use cases in which DynamoDB would be suitable:
• Developing software applications: Build internet-scale applications that support user-content metadata and
caches that require high concurrency and connections for millions of users and millions of requests per
second.
• Creating media metadata stores: Scale throughput and concurrency for media and entertainment workloads,
such as real-time video streaming and interactive content, and deliver lower latency with multi-Region
replication across AWS Regions.
• Scaling gaming platforms: Focus on driving innovation with no operational overhead. Build out your game
platform with player data, session history, and leaderboards for millions of concurrent users.
=== Page 47 ===
DynamoDB features
Serverless performance with limitless scalability
• Secondary indexes provide flexibility on how to access your data.
• Amazon DynamoDB Streams is ideal for an event-driven architecture.
• Multi-Region, multi-active data replication with global tables
Built-in security and reliability
• DynamoDB encrypts all customer data at rest by default.
• Point-in-time recovery protects data from accidental operations.
• DynamoDB allows fine-grained access control.
This section further explores some of the features of DynamoDB.
Serverless performance with limitless scalability
• DynamoDB offers the option to create global and local secondary indexesthat you can use to query the data
in the table by using an alternate key. In addition to giving you maximum flexibility on how to access your
data, you canprovision lower write throughput with excellent performance at a lower cost.
• Amazon DynamoDB Streams is a change data capture capability. Whenever an application creates, updates,
or deletes items in a table,DynamoDB Streams records a time-ordered sequence of every item-level change
in near-real time, making it ideal for event-driven architecture applications to consume and action the
changes. Applications can also access this log and view the data items as they appeared before and after
they were modified in near-real time.
• DynamoDB global tables provide multi-active replication of your data across your choice of AWS Regions.
Global tables are multi-active, which means that you can write and read from any replica, and your globally
distributed applications can access data locally in the selected Regions to get single-digit millisecond read
and write performance. Global tables also automatically scale capacity to accommodate your multi-Region
workloads.
Built-in security and reliability
• DynamoDB usesIAM to authenticate, create, and access resources. It encrypts all customer data at rest by
default.
• Point-in-time recovery (PITR) protects data in DynamoDB tables from accidental write or delete
operations.PITR provides continuous backups of your DynamoDB table data, and you can restore that table
to any point in time up to the second during the preceding 35 days.
• With DynamoDB, there are no usernames or passwords. DynamoDB uses IAM to authenticate, create, and
access resources. You can specify IAM policies and conditions that allow fine-grained access, restricting read
or write access down to specific items and attributes in a table based on the identity of that user. This feature
makes it possible for customers to enforce security policies at the code level.
=== Page 48 ===
Amazon DynamoDB data structure
Atableis a collection
of data containing
zero or more items.
A simple primary
key is composed of
Anitemis a group of one attribute
attributes that is uniquely known as
identifiable among all of thepartition key.
the other items.
There can be zero or
more additional
Anattributeis a
attributes in an item.
fundamental data
element.
Acomposite primary key is composed
of the partition key and the sort key.
Consider the Amazon DynamoDB data structure to better understand the features it offers.
• A tableis a collection of data. A table is unique to an account ID and a region. Each DynamoDB table
contains zero or more items.
• A DynamoDB itemis a group of attributes that is uniquely identifiable among all of the other items. Each
attribute consists of a key-value pair. (e.g. Key = Name, Value = Sam)
Conceptually, an item is similar to a row of a table. It is the core unit of data in DynamoDB.
• Each item is composed of one or more attributes. Anattributeis a fundamental data element, something
that does not need to be broken down any further.
Attributes in DynamoDB are similar in many ways to fields or columns in other database systems.
• All items must have a partition key, also known as a hash key. A simple primary key is composed of one
attribute known as thepartition key.
• Having a sort key is optional. A sort key denotes how the items that share the same partition key are sorted
within the partition.
Sort keys can be timestamps, version numbers, or audit log IDs. The sort keys are used to create groupings
of data.
• A compositeprimary keyis the combination of the partition key and sort key which will uniquely identify an
item. Having a primary key enables rich query capabilities.
• There can be zero or more additional attributes in an item.
=== Page 49 ===
Amazon DynamoDB sample base table
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 1 Timestamp: 2023-11-20 15:42:00 Temperature: 41.9 Error Status: Low
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute =
Device ID: 1 Timestamp: 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 42
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 1 Timestamp: 2023-11-20 15:43:00 Temperature: 39 Error Status: Low
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 2 Timestamp: 2023-11-20 15:42:00 Temperature: 47 Error Status: Low
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 2 Timestamp: 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 49 Error Status: High
Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute =
Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:43:00 Temperature: 46.9
This is a representation of a DynamoDB base table of IoT sensor data from two devices.
• The partition key is the device ID for device 1 and 2. The sort key is a timestamp of the reading of each
device.
• The items shown have temperatureas an attribute.
• The items also have the attribute error status of low and high when the temperature recorded was within or
outside of the optimal range.
This sample base table is used for a query to read the attributes associated with a device. Alternatively, the
whole table can be read to get all device readings with a table scan.
Sometimes you want to query based on attributes other than the partition keys or sort keys without having to
do a full table scan. To support alternate query patterns in DynamoDB, you can use secondary indexes.
=== Page 50 ===
Alternate schema using a global secondary index
Base table Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 1 2023-11-20 15:42:00 Temperature: 41.9 Error Status: Low
Query 1: For a Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute =
given device id and Device ID: 1 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 42
timestamp, find Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute = Attribute =
the associated Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 49 Error Status: High
temperature and
Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute =
error status. Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:43:00 Temperature: 46.9
Global Secondary
Index (GSI)
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute= Timestamp: Attribute = Error
[Eventual
Temperature: 49 Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Status: High
consistency]
Query 2:
For a given temperature
and device id, find the Alternate partition Alternate sort key
key as base table as base table
associated error status
and timestamp.
With a global secondary index (GSI), DynamoDB creates a read-only copy of the base table in which you can
pivot the data around different partition and sort keys. You do not have to include every attribute of your items
in the GSI. This provides an alternate schema on your DynamoDB base table.
DynamoDB copies data from your base table into your GSI asynchronously and data becomes eventually
consistent with the base table. The default behavior is that all copies of data usually reach consistency within 1
second. When you read data from a GSI, the response might not reflect the results of a recently completed
write operation on the base table.
In the above example, the base table explained earlier is shown. The base table is used to obtain readings for a
given device id and timestamp.
The GSI of the same data is shown. An alternate partition key of temperature and sort key of device id has been
specified. From the GSI, you can query the associated readings for a given temperature and device id.
• Both the partition key and the sort key can be different from the base table in GSIs.
• You can create and remove a GSI at any time.
• There are no data size limits. The maximum number of GSIs per DynamoDB table is 20.
• Separate capacity is provisioned for GSIs.
• When you query a GSI, you get eventual consistent reads.
=== Page 51 ===
Alternate schema using a local secondary index
Base table Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute = Attribute =
Device ID: 1 2023-11-20 15:42:00 Temperature: 41.9 Error Status: Low
Query 1: For a given Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute =
device id and Device ID: 1 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 42
timestamp, find the Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute = Attribute =
associated Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:42:30 Temperature: 49 Error Status: High
temperature and Partition key = Sort key = Timestamp: Attribute =
error status. Device ID: 2 2023-11-20 15:43:00 Temperature: 46.9
Local Secondary
Index (LSI)
Partition key = Sort key = Attribute = Attribute= Timestamp:
[Eventual or
Device ID: 2 Error Status: High Temperature: 49 2023-11-20 15:42:30
strong
consistency]
Query 2:
For a given device id Same partition key Alternate sort key
as base table as base table
and error status,
find its temperature
and timestamp.
You can retrieve data from a DynamoDB base table using eventual consistency or strong consistency. If you
request a strongly consistent read, DynamoDB returns a response with the most up-to-date data. The response
reflects the updates from all previous write operations that were successful.
If your use case requires strongly consistent reads, you could implement an alternate schema with a local
secondary index (LSI).
In the example above, the base table explained earlier is shown. It provides the associated temperature and
error status for a given device id and timestamp.
In the LSI, the same partition key and an alternate sort key as the base table have been specified. This will
provide the temperature and timestamp for a given device ID and error status.
• The partition key stays the same as the base table, but the sort key can be different from the base table in an
LSIs.
• LSIs must be created along with the table. You cannot add or remove an LSI later.
• There are data size limits. The maximum number of LSIs per DynamoDB base table is five.
• Queries or scans on an LSI consume read capacity from the base table.
• When you query a LSI, you choose either eventual consistency or strong consistency.
=== Page 52 ===
Multi-region replication: Amazon DynamoDB global tables
Global tables provide a multi-region, multi-active database for fast local
read and write performance for global applications.
Table Table Table
us-west-1 eu-south-1 cn-north-1
cn-north-1
By default, Amazon DynamoDB replicates your data across multiple Availability Zones in a single Region.
However, there might be occasions when you want to replicate your data across multiple Regions.
Aglobal tableis a collection of one or more replica tables, all owned by a single AWS account. Areplica tableis
a single DynamoDB table that functions as a part of a global table. Each replica stores the same set of data
items. You can add replica tables to the global table so that it can be available in additional Regions.
Amazon DynamoDB global tablesprovide a fully managed, serverless solution for deploying a multi-region,
multi-active database. As global tables replicate your Amazon DynamoDB tables automatically across your
choice of AWS Regions, you can achieve fast, local read and write performance. Global tables also eliminate the
difficult work of replicating data between regions and resolving update conflicts for multi-active workloads. In
addition, global tables enable your applications to stay highly available even in the rare event of isolation or
degradation of an entire region.
Scenario: Suppose that you have a large customer base spread across three geographic areas—the US west
coast, the South of Europe, and north of China. Customers must update their profile information while they use
your application.
Solution with Amazon DynamoDB global tables:You could create a global table that consists of your three
Region-specific CustomerProfiles tables. DynamoDB would then automatically replicate data changes among
those tables. Changes to CustomerProfiles data in one Region would seamlessly propagate to the other Regions.
In addition, if one of the AWS Regions became temporarily unavailable, your customers could still access the
same CustomerProfiles data in the other Regions.
=== Page 53 ===
DynamoDB security best practices
Preventative Detective
• Use IAM roles to authenticate access. • Use AWS CloudTrail to monitor AWS
managed AWS KMS key usage.
• Use IAM policies for DynamoDB base
authorization. • Monitor DynamoDB operations by
using CloudTrail.
• Use IAM policy conditions for fine-
grained access control. • Monitor DynamoDB configuration
with AWS Config.
• Use a VPC endpoint and policies to
access DynamoDB. • Monitor DynamoDB compliance with
AWS Config rules.
DynamoDB encrypts all user data at rest stored in tables, indexes, streams, and backups by using encryption
keys stored in AWS KMS. This provides an additional layer of data protection by securing your data from
unauthorized access to the underlying storage.
The following best practices can help you anticipate and prevent security incidents in DynamoDB:
• Use IAM roles to authenticate access: For users, applications, and other AWS services to access DynamoDB,
they must include valid AWS credentials in their AWS API requests.
• Use IAM policies for DynamoDB base authorization: When granting permissions, you decide who is getting
them, which DynamoDB APIs they are getting permissions for, and the specific actions you want to allow on
those resources. Implementing least privilege is key in reducing security risk and the impact that can result
from errors or malicious intent. Attach permissions policies to IAM identities (that is, users, groups, and
roles) and thereby grant permissions to perform operations on DynamoDB resources.
• Use IAM policy conditions for fine-grained access control: When you grant permissions in DynamoDB, you
can specify conditions that determine how a permissions policy takes effect.
• Use a VPC endpoint and policies to access DynamoDB: If you require access to DynamoDB only from within
a VPC, you should use a VPC endpoint to limit access from only the required VPC. Doing this prevents that
traffic from traversing the open internet and being subject to that environment.
The following best practices for DynamoDB can help you detect potential security weaknesses and incidents:
• Use AWS CloudTrail to monitor AWS managed AWS KMS key usage: If you are using anAWS managed
keyfor encryption at rest, usage of this key is logged into CloudTrail. CloudTrail provides visibility into user
activity by recording actions taken on your account.
• Monitor DynamoDB operations by using CloudTrail: When activity occurs in DynamoDB, that activity is
recorded in a CloudTrail event along with other AWS service events in the event history.
• Monitor DynamoDB configuration with AWS Config: By using AWS Config, you can continuously monitor
and record configuration changes of your AWS resources. You can also use AWS Config to inventory your AWS
resources.
=== Page 54 ===
• Monitor DynamoDB compliance with AWS Config rules: AWS Config continuously tracks the
configuration changes that occur among your resources. It checks whether these changes violate
any of the conditions in your rules. If a resource violates a rule, AWS Config flags the resource and
the rule as noncompliant. By using AWS Config to evaluate your resource configurations, you can
assess how well your resource configurations comply with internal practices, industry guidelines,
and regulations.
=== Page 55 ===
Key takeaways: • DynamoDB is a fully managed, serverless, NoSQL
database that supports key-value and document
Amazon
data models.
DynamoDB
• DynamoDB offers global and local secondary
indexesto provide flexibility on how to access
your data.
• Global tables provide a multi-Region, multi-
active database for fast performance for global
applications.
• DynamoDB encrypts all user data at rest stored
in tables, indexes, and streams. Preventative and
detective security best practices help ensure data
protection.
=== Page 56 ===
Purpose-built databases
Adding a Database Layer
This section describes the relational database offering Amazon Redshift and six non-relational database options
that are purpose-built for specific use cases.
=== Page 57 ===
The evolution of purpose-built databases
Opportunity Database AWS Examples
Evolution
Improve on hierarchical databases' limited Relational Amazon RDS
abilities to define relationships among data.
Improve performance by separating read- Data warehouse/ Amazon Redshift
heavy reporting from an application's OLAP
transactional database.
Analyze the more varied types of data being Non-relational DynamoDB
generated in large amounts on the internet.
Take advantage of cloud computing's Purpose-built: Fully managed database services:
freedom to scale data stores up and down • Document • Amazon DocumentDB
based on actual usage, and the ease of • Wide-column • Amazon Keyspaces
connecting different microservices to • In-memory • MemoryDB
purpose-built data stores. • Graph • Neptune
• Timeseries • Timestream
• Ledger • Amazon QLDB
Application architectures have changed quite a bit in recent decades. Each of the major shifts focused on
splitting up your application to improve scaling and resiliency. Parallel to the evolution of application
architecture is the evolution of how you store and access data in increasingly purpose-built solutions. Relational
databases replaced hierarchical ones, which had limited abilities to define relationships among data. Data
warehouses evolved as a way to separate operational reporting, which requires read-heavy querying across a
full dataset, from the application's transactional database, which is focused on fast reads and writes in a much
smaller set of records. Data warehouses are still relational databases, but they are online analytical processing
(OLAP) databases that have been optimized for reporting and analytics.
As the internet era took off, organizations started to get more varied types of data, which they wanted to be
able to analyze. This new variety of data was less structured and needed less rigid rules. This change in the
types of data led to the development of the first non-relational databases in the late 90s.
Cloud computing gave organizations the freedom to scale data stores up and down based on actual usage.
Coupled with a move toward microservices, the flexibility of the cloud made it attractive to connect different
application components to different databases rather than relying on a single multipurpose one. Additional non-
relational purpose-built databases emerged to give developers the ability to optimize the storage that is
connected to a component to match the data type and processing of that component. For example, developers
might use a ledger database for financial transactions.
Other sections in this module have looked in more depth at Amazon RDS and DynamoDB. This section provides
a quick overview of Amazon Redshift and the six purpose-built databases that this slide describes.
=== Page 58 ===
Amazon Redshift
•Is a fully managed, cloud-based data
warehousing service designed to handle
petabyte-scale analytics workloads
•Achieves optimum query performance with
columnar storage
•Has an Amazon Redshift Serverless option
Amazon Redshift
•Is used for online analytics processing
(OLAP)
Data warehouses are relational databases that have been optimized for reporting and analytics. This involves
reading large amounts of data to understand relationships and trends across the data. A data warehouse
requires that the data be organized in a tabular format, which is needed so that SQL can be used to query the
data. A database is used to capture and store data, such as recording details of a transaction.
An Amazon Redshift data warehouse is an enterprise-class relational database query and management system.
Amazon Redshift supports client connections with many types of applications, including business intelligence
(BI), reporting, data, and analytics tools. Amazon Redshift is an open source database that is optimized for high
performance and analysis of massive datasets.It is a suitable choice if you primarily need to store and analyze
massive amounts of data quickly and efficiently, typically met by an OLAP application.
• Amazon Redshift achieves efficient storage and optimum query performance through a combination of
massively parallel processing, columnar data storage, and very efficient, targeted data compression encoding
schemes. Columnar storage for database tables drastically reduces the overall disk I/O requirements. It
reduces the amount of data that you need to load from disk.
• Amazon Redshift manages all of the work of setting up, operating, and scaling a data warehouse. These tasks
include provisioning capacity, monitoring and backing up the cluster, and applying patches and upgrades to
the Amazon Redshift engine.
• Amazon Redshift Serverless is designed for unpredictable workloads. Amazon Redshift Serverless adjusts
capacity in seconds to deliver consistently high performance.
The following are some use cases for Amazon Redshift:
• Automatically create, train, and deploy machine learning models to improve financial and demand forecasts.
• Securely share data among accounts, organizations, and partners while building applications on top of third-
party data.
• Increase developer productivity by getting simplified data access without configuring drivers and managing
database connections.
=== Page 59 ===
AWS fully managed purpose-built database options
Amazon DocumentDB
(with MongoDB Amazon Neptune
compatibility) Graph database
Document database
Amazon Keyspaces (for
Amazon Timestream
Apache Cassandra)
Timeseries database
Cassandra workloads
Amazon Quantum
Amazon MemoryDB for
Ledger Database
Redis
(Amazon QLDB)
In-memory workloads
Ledger database
The slide summarizes the six types of AWS purpose-built databases:
• Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility)is a fast, scalable, document database service that
supports MongoDB workloads.
• Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) is a highly available and managed Apache Cassandra–compatible
database service.
• Amazon MemoryDB for Redis is a Redis-compatible, durable, in-memory database service for ultra-fast
performance.
• Amazon Neptune is a fast, reliable, fully managed graph database service that you can use to build and run
applications that work with highly connected datasets.
• Amazon Timestream is a scalable, fully managed, fast timeseries database service for IoT and operational
applications.
• Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (QLDB) is a fully managed ledger database that tracks each and every
application data change and maintains a complete and verifiable history of changes over time.
All of these databases are fully managed cloud services that help you limit the time and cost of experimenting
and maintaining different types of databases.
=== Page 60 ===
Matching a database to your business need
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
Analyze your Understand the Familiarize yourself Review common use
workload characteristics of the with key features and cases to find reference
requirements to see if data model that you configuration options architectures and
they match the would need to use to optimize examples.
database's with the database. performance.
capabilities.
The concept of having purpose-built databases closely aligns with the performance efficiency pillar of the AWS
Well-Architected Framework. It is essential to select the right tool for the job. This section presents examples of
AWS databases suited to specific types of data and workloads.
As an architect choosing a database, thinking about the workload requirements and the data model that fits
those requirements is an important first step. You then evaluate available database options to choose one that
best matches your use case. Take advantage of your selected databases features and configurations to optimize
the database for your use case. It is also helpful to review common use cases to learn about proven ways of
doing things and to find reference architectures and examples to help guide your architecture designs.
The remaining slides in this section summarize each of the six databases presented on the previous slide along
these four elements: suitable workloads, data model, key features/benefits, and common use cases.
=== Page 61 ===
Amazon DocumentDB
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Require a • Uses a document • Is a MongoDB- • Content
flexible schema data model compatible, management
for fast, iterative • Stores and JSON document system (CMS)
development quickly accesses database • Customer
• Need to store documents • Is good for profiles
data that has • Queries on any complex • Storage and
different attribute documents that management of
attributes and are dynamic and operational data
data values require one-time from any
querying, source
indexing, and
aggregations
Suitable workloads
Some organizations need to have a way to store data that has different attributes and data value. An example is
online customer profiles in which different users provide different types of information. There is a need for a
flexible schema to store each user's profile efficiently by storing only the attributes that are specific to each
user. When a user elects to add or remove information from their profile, the data should be replaced with an
updated version. Some workloads require this level of individuality and fluidity.
Data model
This database uses a document data model. Documents are often used to store semi-structured data in field-
value pairs and are typically stored as JSON files. A simple document has one or more fields that are all at the
same level within the document. In the following example, the fields LName, FName, and DOB are all siblings
within the document. When information is organized in a simple document, each field is managed individually.
To retrieve a person’s full name, you must retrieveLName and FNameas individual data items.
"LName": "Rivera",
"FName": "Martha",
"DOB": "1992-11-16"
A document database is designed to store and query data as JSON-like documents. Document databases make
it possible for developers to store and query data in a database by using the same document-model format they
use in their application code. The flexible, semi-structured, and hierarchical nature of documents and document
databases gives them the ability to evolve with their applications’ needs. Document databases enable flexible
indexing, powerful one-time queries, and analytics over collections of documents.
=== Page 62 ===
Key features/benefits
Amazon DocumentDB is a fully managed, MongoDB-compatible, JSON document database. It is
suitable to use for high-performance applications at scale that require data represented as JSON.
Amazon DocumentDB is great for complex documents that are dynamic and may require one-time
querying, indexing, and aggregations. Native integrations with AWS Database Migration Service
(AWS DMS)to migrate MongoDB non-relational databases to Amazon DocumentDB make
integration possible with virtually no downtime. A vast majority of the applications, drivers, and
tools that customers already use today with their open source MongoDB non-relational database
can be used with Amazon DocumentDB.You can control access to Amazon DocumentDB
management operations, such as creating and modifying clusters, instances, and more by using IAM
users, roles, and policies.
Common use cases
To effectively manage content, you must be able to collect and aggregate content from a variety of
sources, and then deliver it to the customer. Due to their flexible schema, document databases are
perfect for collecting and storing any type of data. You can use them to create and incorporate new
types of content, including user-generated content, such as images, comments, and videos. Another
Amazon DocumentDB use case is related to real-time big data. Historically, the ability to extract
information from operational data was hampered by the fact that operational databases and
analytical databases were maintained in different environments—operational and business
reporting, respectively. Being able to extract operational information in real time is critical in a highly
competitive business environment. By using document databases, a business can store and manage
operational data from any source and concurrently feed the data to the business intelligence engine
of choice for analysis. There is no requirement to have two environments.
=== Page 63 ===
Amazon Keyspaces
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Fast querying • Is a wide column Scalable, highly Process data at
capability of data model available, and high speeds for
high volumes of • Stores data in managed Apache applications that
data flexible columns, Cassandra- require
• Scalability and which permits compatible millisecond
consistent data to evolve database service latency:
performance on over time • Industrial
heavy write • Partitions across equipment
loads distributed maintenance
• Trade
database
monitoring
systems
• Route
optimization
Suitable workloads
Some organizations have high volumes of data that need to be queried quickly. These workloads are typically
write-heavy or read/write balanced and have requirements for scalability and consistent performance.
Data model
The suitable data model is wide column. In this data model, data is stored in flexible columns, which permits
data to evolve over time and be partitioned across distributed database systems. A wide-column database uses
tables, rows, and columns, but unlike a relational database, the names and formats of the columns vary from
row to row in the same table. You can interpret a wide-column store as a two-dimensional key-value store.
Wide-column databases allow an additional dimension of information over a standard key-value database. It
extends the basic key-value data model, which means you can use Cassandra Query Language (CQL) on your
data. Wide-column databases provide massive scalability and consistent performance on heavy write loads.
Although standard key-value databases work well for read-heavy workloads, wide-column databases work well
when the read/write is more balanced or for heavy write operations. Apache Cassandra is an open source,
wide-column data store that is designed for large-scale applications that need fast read and write performance.
Key features/benefits
Amazon Keyspaces (for Apache Cassandra) is a scalable, highly available, and managed Apache Cassandra-
compatible database service. Amazon Keyspaces gives you the performance, elasticity, and enterprise features
that you need to operate business-critical Cassandra workloads at scale. You can use CQL API code, Cassandra
drivers, and developer tools without having to manage servers, tombstones, or compaction strategies. It
removes the need for specialized expertise to deploy, configure, and manage Cassandra software. You pay for
only the resources you use, and the service can automatically scale tables up and down in response to
application traffic. You can create continuous table backups with hundreds of terabytes of data with no
performance impact to your application and recover to any point in time in the preceding 35 days.
Common use cases
With Amazon Keyspaces you can move your Cassandra workloads to the cloud. You can process data at high
speeds for applications that require single-digit-millisecond latency, such as industrial equipment maintenance,
trade monitoring, fleet management, and route optimization.
=== Page 64 ===
MemoryDB
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Latency- • Is an in-memory Stores an entire • Caching
sensitive database service dataset in memory • Game
workloads • Relies primarily and leverages a leaderboards
• High request on memory for distributed • Bank user
rate data storage transactional log transactions
to provide the
• High data • Minimizes
following:
throughput response time by
• No data loss eliminating the • In-memory
need to access speed and
disks consistency
• Data durability
and
recoverability
Suitable workloads
Some organizations need to have a primary database for their workloads that are latency sensitive and require
extremely low response times, have high request rates (up to hundreds of millions of requests per second),
have high data throughput needs (GB per second read data access), and have high durability needs.
Data model
In-memory databases rely primarily on memory for data storage in contrast to databases that store data on disk
or SSDs. In-memory databases are designed to enable minimal response times by eliminating the need to
access disks.
Key features/benefits
Amazon MemoryDB for Redis is an in-memory database service. MemoryDB stores your entire dataset in
memory and leverages a distributed transactional log to provide both in-memory speed and data durability,
consistency, and recoverability. You can use MemoryDB as a fully managed, primary database to build high-
performance applications without having to separately manage a cache, a durable database, or the required
underlying infrastructure. MemoryDB is compatible with open source Redis and supports the same data types,
parameters, and commands.This means that you can use the same code, applications, drivers, and tools with
MemoryDB that you use with open source Redis.
Common use cases
Some industry use cases are customer profiles in retail, leaderboards in gaming, and user transactions in
banking. For scenarios in which there is a need to make multiple requests at a time or manage highly dynamic
data without introducing additional storage latency, MemoryDB would be suitable because it accesses the data
directly from memory.
=== Page 65 ===
Neptune
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Find connections • Is a graph data • Supports graph • Recommendation
or paths in data model applications that engines
• Combine data • Stores data and require high • Fraud detection
with complex the relationship throughput and • Knowledge
relationships of that data to low latency graph graphs
across data silos other data as queries
• Drug discovery
• Navigate highly equally important • Creates and
• Social networking
connected to the data itself navigates data
datasets, and • Quickly creates relations quickly
filter results and navigates
based on certain relationships
variables between data
Suitable workloads
Some organizations have highly connected datasets and want to find connections in their data. They need to be
able to navigate the connected data structures and filter those results based on certain variables.
Data model
Imagine a relational database. It stores data based on a predefined schema, which is based on business
patterns. You must navigate the relationships in the database by using complex JOIN operations. This works well
when answering questions about business processes; however, answering questions about the relationships
themselves is often difficult. For the workload requirements outlined in the previous step, a graph data model is
needed to store data, and the relationship of that data to other data as equally important to the data itself.
With the structure of nodes and edges, you can quickly create and navigate relationships between data.
Key features/benefits
Neptune is a high-performance graph database engine. It efficiently stores and navigates graph data and uses a
scale-up, in-memory-optimized architecture to allow for fast query evaluation over large graphs. Itsupports
graph query languagesApache TinkerPop Gremlin, W3C SPARQL, and openCypher to run powerful queries that
perform well on connected data. This capability significantly reduces code complexity so that you can quickly
create applications that process relationships. With support for up to 15 read replicas, Neptune can support
hundreds of thousands of queries per second.
Common use cases
Neptune powers graph use cases such as recommendation engines, fraud detection, knowledge graphs, drug
discovery, and network security.
=== Page 66 ===
Timestream
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Identify patterns • Is a timeseries • Simplifies • Identify trends
and trends over data model timeseries data from data
time • Is a sequence of access generated by
• Determine value data points • Has built-in Internet of Things
or performance recorded over a timeseries (IoT) applications
over time time interval for functions for quick • Improve
• Rely on efficient measuring events analysis of performance by
data processing that change over timeseries data by analyzing web
and analytics time using SQL traffic data for
your applications
• Require ease of • Provides the
in real time
data management ability to collect,
store, and process
data sequenced by
time
Suitable workloads
Some organizations need to identify trends over time to make data-driven business decisions. For example,
financial service businesses need to identify their measure and values and place them over a sequence of
timestamps to identify a cyclical trend analysis. Call centers need to collect call volume data over a series of
timestamps to accurately scale business processes and identify trends.
Data model
Timeseries data is a sequence of data points recorded over a time interval for measuring events that change
over time. With a timeseries data model, you can collect, store, and process data sequenced by time.
Key features/benefits
Timestream is a serverless database that simplifies data access and provides a durable and secure way to derive
insights from timeseries data. The Timestream query engine transparently accesses and combines data across
storage tiers without you having to specify the data location. You can quickly analyze timeseries data by using
SQL, using the built-in timeseries functions Timestream has for smoothing, approximation, and interpolation.
Timestream also supports advanced aggregates, window functions, and complex data types such as arrays and
rows.Timestream helps ensure the durability of your data by automatically replicating your memory and
magnetic store data across different Availability Zones within a single AWS Region.
Common use cases
With Timestream, you can analyze timeseries data generated by IoT applications by using built-in analytic
functions to help you identify trends and patterns. You can also collect and analyze operational metrics to
monitor health and usage, and analyze data in real time to improve performance and availability. You can store
and process incoming and outgoing web traffic data for your applications and use additional aggregate functions
for analysis and insights.
=== Page 67 ===
Amazon QLDB
Suitable workloads Data model Features and benefits Common use cases
• Maintain an • Is a ledger • Provides a • Storing financial
accurate history database transparent, transactions
of application • Provides an immutable, and • Maintaining claim
data immutable and cryptographically history
• Track the history verifiable history verifiable
of financial of all changes to transaction log
transactions application data • Provides built-in
• Verify the data data integrity
lineage of claims • Provides a
consistent event
store
Suitable workloads
Many organizations spend significant effort and expense to meet audit and compliance requirements. Generally,
auditing focuses on the controls in place to help ensure that data is verifiable by reviewing complicated audit
trails and logging mechanisms. Ledgers are typically used to record a history of financial activity in an
organization. Many organizations build applications with ledger-like functionality because they want to maintain
an accurate history of their applications' data. For example, an organization might want to track the history of
credits and debits in banking transactions, verify the data lineage of an insurance claim, or trace the movement
of an item in a supply chain network. Attempts to implement ledger functionality by using relational databases
or blockchain frameworks have significant challenges. The workload requirements are to maintain, track, verify,
and trace data accurately. Being able to trace the movement of an item in a supply chain network is an example.
Data model
A ledger database is a database that uses different methods to help ensure that data is immutable and
cryptographically verifiable. Ledger databases are often slower and, therefore, not ideal for complex or quick
reads and writes.
Key features/benefits
Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB) is a fully managed ledger database that provides a
transparent, immutable, and cryptographically verifiable transaction log.
• Provides built-in data integrity: With Amazon QLDB, you can trust the integrity of your data with built-in
cryptographic verification that enables third-party validation of data changes.
• Provides a consistent event store: You can track and maintain a sequenced history of every application data
change by using an immutable and transparent journal. You can build correct, event-driven systems with
Amazon QLDB ACID transactions and support for real-time streaming to Amazon Kinesis.
• Flexibility of use: With Amazon QLDB, you have the flexibility of a document database and can query data by
using a SQL-based language called PartiQL.
=== Page 68 ===
Common use cases
The following are some use cases for which Amazon QLDB would be suitable:
• Creating a complete and accurate record of all financial transactions, such as credit and debit
transactions
• Recording the history of each transaction and providing details of every batch manufactured,
shipped, stored, and sold from facility to store
• Tracking a claim over its lifetime and cryptographically verifying data integrity to make the
application resilient against data entry errors and manipulation
=== Page 69 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon Redshift is a cloud-based data
warehousing service.
Purpose-built
• Amazon DocumentDB is a MongoDB-compatible,
databases
JSON document database.
• Amazon Keyspaces is a wide-column database
service that is compatible with Apache
Cassandra.
• MemoryDB is a durable in-memory database
service.
• Neptune is a high-performance graph database
engine.
• Timestream is a purpose-built database for
timeseries data.
• Amazon QLDB is a ledger database that
maintains a verifiable log of data changes.
=== Page 70 ===
Migrating data into AWS databases
Adding a Database Layer
This section describes how AWS Database Migration Service (AWS DMS) provides migration and replication
solutions.
=== Page 71 ===
AWS DMS
•Is a managed migration and replication
service
•Helps move existing database and analytics
workloads to and within AWS
•Supports most widely used commercial and
open source databases
AWS DMS
•Replicates data on demand or on a schedule
to replicate changes from a source
AWS DMS is a web service that you can use to migrate data from a source data store to a target data store.
These two data stores are called endpoints.
• You can migrate between source and target endpoints that use the same database engine (homogenous
migration) and migrate between source and target endpoints that use different database engines
(heterogenous migration). One of your endpoints must be on an AWS service.
• AWS DMS supports a range of relational, NoSQL, analytics, and data warehouse sources and targets. The
source database remains fully operational during the migration, minimizing downtime to applications that
rely on the database.
• You can continuously replicate data with low latency from any supported source to any supported target by
using AWS DMS. For example, you can replicate from multiple sources to Amazon S3 to build a highly
available and scalable data lake solution. You can also consolidate databases into a petabyte-scale data
warehouse by streaming data to Amazon Redshift.
• You cannot use AWS DMS to migrate from an on-premises database to another on-premises database.
• Supportedsource databases include Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, IBM Db2
LUW, SAP, MongoDB, and Aurora. Target databaseengines include Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL,
MySQL, Amazon Redshift, SAP ASE, Amazon S3, and DynamoDB.
=== Page 72 ===
AWS DMS homogeneous migration
Homogeneous data migrations in AWS DMS simplify the migration of self-managed, on-premises databases or
cloud databases to the equivalent engine on Amazon RDS or Aurora.
For example, you can use homogeneous data replications to migrate an on-premises PostgreSQL database to
Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL or Aurora PostgreSQL.
Homogeneous data migrations are serverless, which means that AWS DMS automatically scales the resources
that are required for your migration. For homogeneous data replications, AWS DMS uses native database tools
to provide high-performing like-to-like migrations. At a high level, homogeneous data migrations operate with
instance profiles, data providers, and replication projects.
This example shows that the database engine is the same for the source database (on-premises MySQL) and the
target database (Amazon RDS database running MySQL).
1. Aninstance profilespecifies network and security settings for the managed environment where your
migration project runs. When you create a migration project with the compatible source and target data
providers of the same type, AWS DMS deploys a managed environment where your data migration runs.
2. Next, AWS DMS connects to the source data endpoint, reads the source data, dumps the files on the disk,
and restores the data by using native database tools.
=== Page 73 ===
Tools for heterogeneous database migrations
Database discovery tool Schema conversion tools
AWS DMS Fleet AWS Schema AWS DMS Schema
Advisor Conversion Tool Conversion
(AWS SCT)
Automatically Converts your source Is a centrally
inventories and schema and SQL code managed service for
assesses on-premises into an equivalent schema assessment
database and target schema and and conversion
analytics server fleet SQL code available within AWS
DMS workflows
Heterogenous migration is migrating between source and target endpoints that use different database engines.
There are multiple solutions for simplifying database migrations by automating schema analysis,
recommendations, and conversion at scale. Three of them are explained here.
AWS DMS Fleet Advisor is a database discovery tool that automatically inventories and assesses your on-
premises database and analytics server fleet and identifies potential migration paths. AWS DMS Fleet Advisor
can recommend potential database engine and instance options for migration to AWS. This tool delivers results
in a few hours instead of weeks or even months without using third-party tools or hiring migration experts.
AWS offers two schema conversion solutions to make heterogeneous database migrations predictable, fast, and
secure:
1. Download the AWS Schema Conversion Tool (AWS SCT) software to your local drive.
2. Log in to the AWS DMS console to initiate theAWS DMS Schema Conversion workflow for a fully managed
experience.
Both options will automatically assess and convert the source database schema and a majority of the database
code objects to a format compatible with the target database. Any objects that cannot be automatically
converted are clearly marked as action items with prescriptive instructions on how to convert so that they can
be manually converted to complete the migration.
=== Page 74 ===
AWS DMS heterogeneous migration with AWS SCT
Aurora cluster
This example illustrates an AWS DMS heterogenous migration by using AWS Schema Conversion Tool(SCT):
1. Convert: The AWS SCT works in conjunction with AWS DMS when you are moving your source database to a
different target database to convert all schema and code objects to the target engine. The AWS SCT
automatically converts your source database schemas and most of the database code objects to a format
compatible with the target database. The AWS SCT is a standalone application that you need to download to
your local drive. Alternatively the AWS DMS replication task can use the AWS DMS Schema conversion
feature instead of AWS SCT.
2. Migrate schema and code: You create an AWS DMS migration by creating the necessary replication instance,
endpoints, and tasks in an AWS Region. An AWS DMS replication instance is a managed EC2 instance that
hosts one or more replication tasks. One or more migration tasks are created to migrate data between the
source and target data stores.
=== Page 75 ===
AWS DMS replicates data from a database into a data
lake
Another use case is data replication into a data lake. In this higher education use case, AWS DMS is used to
replicate data from a database into an Amazon S3 data lake:
1. Student Information System data exists in an on-premises database. This data needs to be ingested into the
data lake for analytics.
2. An AWS DMS source endpoint is connected to the SIS data.
3. An AWS DMS replication task is run to replicate data from the demo SIS database.
4. An AWS DMS destination endpoint connects the replication task to the Amazon S3 raw data bucket.
5. The data can be accessed by analysis and visualization services to derive insight from the student
information data.
=== Page 76 ===
Key takeaways: • AWS DMS is a managed migration and
Migrating data into replication service that helps you move your
databases and analytics workloads to AWS
AWS databases
quickly and securely.
• You can migrate between source and target
endpoints that use the same database engine
(homogenous migration) and migrate between
source and target endpoints that use different
database engines (heterogenous migration).
• AWS SCT and AWS DMS Schema Conversion are
tools for schema and code conversion.
=== Page 77 ===
Café lab: Migrating a Database to
Amazon RDS (Migration lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 78 ===
The evolving café architecture: Version 3
Architecture
Business Reason for Update Technical Requirements and Architecture Update
Version
V1 Create a static website for a small Host the website on Amazon S3.
business.
V2 Add online ordering. Deploy the web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce the effort to maintain the Separate the web and database layers. Migrate the database
database and secure its data. to Amazon RDS on a private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon VPC features to configure and secure public and
application. private subnets.
V5 Create separate access mechanisms Add IAM groups and attach resource polices to application
based on role. resources. Add IAM users to groups based on role.
V6 Ensure that the website can handle Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
an expected increase in traffic. instances, and distribute compute and database instances
across two Availability Zones.
The administration of the café database is becoming difficult for Sofía and Nikhil. For example, they must work
extra hours when the café is closed to do weekly database backups.
In addition, they recently struggled to install a required patch. Sofía and Nikhil almost did not complete it during
the weekend afterhours window. Frank and Martha now realize that these maintenance tasks increase the
business’s labor costs because they must pay for the overtime hours that Sofía and Nikhil work.
Raquel, an AWS solutions architect, is a café customer and Sofía’s friend. Sofía mentioned the topic of databases
to Olivia during a recent conversation. Olivia suggested that they migrate the database to Amazon RDS.
This solution will reduce the burden of manually performing common database maintenance tasks, such as
backups, patch installation, and upgrades. As a fully managed service, Amazon RDS performs these tasks
automatically.
=== Page 79 ===
Migration lab • In this lab, you will perform the following
tasks main tasks:
• Create an RDS DB instance.
• Import data from the EC2 DB instance to the
RDS DB instance.
• Connect the café application to the new
database.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 80 ===
Debrief: Migration lab
• When you created your Amazon RDS MariaDB database, why did
you not create a standby instance?
• Where did you get the password that you used to connect to the
MariaDB database that runs on the EC2 instance?
=== Page 81 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to the database
layer
Adding a Database Layer
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles to your database layer.
=== Page 82 ===
AWS Well-Architected Framework database pillars
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module. Find the complete set of best practices by pillar
on the Well-Architected Framework website. The content resources section of your online course includes a
link.
As you make connections between the AWS Well-Architected Framework pillars and the database layer,
consider your role as a cloud architect who is adding a database layer:
• You need to evaluate the available database options before selecting a data management solution so that
you can optimize performance.
• You need to secure your infrastructure effectively so that data is durable and safe from threats.
=== Page 83 ===
Best practice approach: Architecture Selection
Best practices
Evaluate how trade-offs impact
customers and architecture
efficiency.
Use a data-driven approach for
architectural choices.
Factor cost into architectural
decisions.
Database architecture selection is an important best practice under the performance efficiency pillar. The
optimal database solution for a system varies based on requirements for availability, consistency, partition
tolerance, latency, durability, scalability, and query capability. Many systems use different database solutions for
various sub-systems and allow different features to improve performance. Selecting the wrong database
solution and features for a system can lead to lower performance efficiency. Three important best practices
related to database architecture selection include understanding data characteristics, evaluating available
options, and choosing data storage based on access patterns.
Evaluate how trade-offs impact customers and architecture efficiency: When evaluating performance-related
improvements, determine which choices impact your customers and workload efficiency. For example, if using a
key-value data store increases system performance, it is important to evaluate how the eventually consistent
nature of this change will impact customers. When selecting and implementing a data management solution,
you must ensure that the querying, scaling, and storage characteristics support the workload data
requirements. Before implementing a solution, learn how each available option matches your data models and
use case.
Use a data-driven approach for architectural choices: Define a clear, data-driven approach for architectural
choices to verify that the right cloud services and configurations are used to meet your specific business needs.
Use the access patterns of the workload and requirements of the applications to decide on optimal data
services and technologies to use. Understanding when to use read replicas, global tables, data partitioning, and
caching will help you decrease operational overhead and scale based on your workload needs. For example, you
should identify and document the anticipated growth of the data and traffic. With that pattern in mind, consider
available database options and configurations.
Document workload data characteristics with enough detail to facilitate the selection and configuration of
supporting database solutions, and provide insight into potential alternatives.
=== Page 84 ===
Once you have considered the workload data characteristics enough to identify alternatives,
evaluate and verify your selections and the available database configuration options that best suit
your specific workload. Run load tests to identify your key performance metrics and bottlenecks.
Use these characteristics and metrics to evaluate database options and experiment with different
configurations. Don't increase instance size to improve performance without looking at the impact
of available configuration options. Evaluate the acceptable query times to ensure that the selected
database options can meet the requirements. For example, after determining the extent to which
your workload is read-heavy, you can evaluate solutions that are available for offloading reads such
as read replicas or caching.
Factor cost into architectural decisions: Factor cost into your architectural decisions to improve
resource utilization and performance efficiency of your cloud workload. When you are aware of the
cost implications of your cloud workload, you are more likely to leverage efficient resources and
reduce wasteful practices.
In this module, you've learned about a number of database solutions and configuration options that
align to these best practices. You learned that AWS has a variety of database solutions so that you
can select the one that meets the workload requirements and data models for your use case. For
example, use Amazon RDS for relational data, Amazon Redshift for a data warehouse, DynamoDB for
key-value data that requires very low latency at very high scale, or one of the other purpose-built
databases that are designed for specific workloads.
You also learned about the configuration options that optimize performance for your selected
database. For example with Amazon RDS, you can configure the instance type and size suited to your
workload. You can configure high availability and implement read replicas. You can use RDS Proxy to
scale connection pools. DynamoDB automatically scales horizontally, and you learned how
secondary indexes and global tables can improve performance based on your table structures and
access patterns.
These are just a couple of examples of best practices for performance efficiency in your database
layer. With all of the options and flexibility available in cloud databases, you can follow these best
practices for any use case.
=== Page 85 ===
Best practice approach: Data protection –protecting data at rest
Best practice
Implement secure key management.
Enforce encryption at rest.
Protecting the data residing in your database storage is a critical part of the security pillar. Encryption maintains
the confidentiality of sensitive data in the event of unauthorized access or accidental disclosure. Protecting your
data at rest reduces the risk of unauthorized access when encryption and appropriate access controls are
implemented. Two important best practices related to protecting data at rest are implementing secure key
management and enforcing encryption at rest.
Implement secure key management: By defining an encryption approach that includes the storage, rotation,
and access control of keys, you can help provide protection for your content against unauthorized users and
against unnecessary exposure to authorized users. AWS KMS helps you manage encryption keys and integrates
with many AWS services. This service provides durable, secure, and redundant storage for your AWS KMS keys.
Enforce encryption at rest: You should ensure that the only way to store data is by using encryption. AWS KMS
integrates seamlessly with many AWS services to help you encrypt all your data at rest.
The following are examples of these best practices you learned about in this module:
• Amazon databases such as Amazon RDS and DynamoDB use AWS KMS to secure data.
• DynamoDB encrypts all user data at rest stored in tables, indexes, streams, and backups by using encryption
keys stored in AWS KMS.
• Amazon RDS encrypts your databases by using keys that you manage with AWS KMS. For an Amazon RDS
encrypted database instance, data stored at rest in the underlying storage is encrypted, as are all logs,
backups, and snapshots. After your data is encrypted,Amazon RDShandles the authentication of access and
the decryption of your data transparently with minimal impact on performance.
=== Page 86 ===
Best practice approach: Cost-effective resources –select the correct resource
type, size, and number
Best practice
Select the resource type, size, and
number based on data.
By selecting the best database type, size, and number of resources, you meet the technical requirements with
the lowest cost resource. Right-sizing activities takes into account all of the resources of a workload, all of the
attributes of each individual resource, and the effort involved in the right-sizing operation. Right-sizing can be an
iterative process, initiated by changes in usage patterns and external factors, such as AWS price drops or new
AWS resource types. Central to this process is selecting the resource type, size, and number based on data.
Select the resource type, size, and number based on data: Select the resource size or type based on data about
the workload and resource characteristics: for example, compute, memory, throughput, or write intensive. This
selection is typically made by using a previous (on-premises) version of the workload, using documentation, or
using other sources of information about the workload.
In this module, you learned how different database resources can scale and saw examples of use cases suited to
different configurations. It is important to find the right balance of performance and costs to right-size your
resources. For example, you saw how Aurora can provide better performance and lower cost that standard
database engines and how Aurora Serverless can be used to provide on-demand scaling so that you can avoid
overprovisioning resources.
=== Page 87 ===
Key takeaways: • To achieve and maintain efficient workloads in the
Applying AWS cloud, consider best practices in the performance
efficiency pillar such as making selection choices
Well-Architected
based on data characteristics and access patterns.
Framework
• To secure your infrastructure effectively so that
principles to your
data is durable and safe from threats, consider
database layer
best practices in the security pillar such as
implementing secure key management and
protecting data at rest.
• To meet the technical requirements of a workload
with the lowest cost resource, consider best
practices in the cost optimization pillar such as
selecting the resource type, size, and number
based on data.
=== Page 88 ===
Module wrap-up
Adding a Database Layer
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 89 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Compare database types and services offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS).
• Explain when to use Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS).
• Describe the advanced features of Amazon RDS.
• Explain when to use Amazon DynamoDB.
• Identify AWS purpose-built database services.
• Describe how to migrate data into AWS databases.
• Design and deploy a database server.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing a
database layer.
=== Page 90 ===
Module This module prepared you to do the
following:
objectives
• Compare database types and services offered by
Amazon Web Services (AWS).
• Explain when to use Amazon Relational Database
Service (Amazon RDS).
• Describe the advanced features of Amazon RDS.
• Explain when to use Amazon DynamoDB.
• Identify AWS purpose-built database services.
• Describe how to migrate data into AWS
databases.
• Design and deploy a database server. Use the
Well-Architected Framework principles when
designing a database layer.
=== Page 91 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how the café lab in this module
answered the key questions and decisions
presented at the start of this module for the
café business.
=== Page 92 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 93 ===
Sample exam question
An application requires a highly available relational database with an initial storage capacity of 8 TB. The database will grow by
8 GB every day. To support expected traffic, at least eight read replicas will be required to handle database reads. Which option
will meet these requirements?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Highly available relational database
• Grow by 8 GB every day
• Read replicas
The question suggests a highly available relational database with significant growth and the need for read
replicas.
=== Page 94 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
An application requires a highly available relational database with an initial storage capacity of 8 TB. The database will grow by
8 GB every day. To support expected traffic, at least eight read replicas will be required to handle database reads. Which option
will meet these requirements?
Choice Response
A Amazon DynamoDB
B Amazon Neptune
C Amazon Aurora
D Amazon Redshift
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 95 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is C.
Choice Response
C Amazon Aurora
Answer A (Amazon DynamoDB) is a non-relational database, so it does not match the requirement.
Answer B (Amazon Neptune) is a purpose-built graph database, so it does not match the requirement.
Answer D (Amazon Redshift) does not support read replicas.
The correct answer is C. Amazon Aurora is a fully managed relational database that can support up to 15 read
replicas. Aurora storage automatically scales with the data in your cluster volume.
=== Page 96 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.