# Clean Text Extracted from: M08SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:09:30
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 08 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 8: Connecting Networks 4
=== Page 4 ===
Connecting Networks
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Connecting Networks module. This module focuses on connecting virtual private cloud (VPC)
networks as well as connecting on-premises networks to VPCs.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Connecting Networks
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the
objectives following:
• Describe how to connect an on-premises
network to the Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Cloud.
• Describe how to connect multiple virtual
private clouds (VPCs) in the AWS Cloud.
• Connect VPCs in the AWS Cloud by using VPC
peering.
• Describe how to scale VPCs in the AWS Cloud.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when connecting networks.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Activity
• Scaling your VPC network with AWS Transit • Configure AWS Transit Gateway Routes
Gateway
Knowledge checks
• Connecting VPCs in AWS with VPC peering
• 10-question knowledge check
• Connecting to your remote network with
AWS Site-to-Site VPN • Sample exam question
• Connecting to your remote network with
AWS Direct Connect
• Applying AWS Well-Architected Framework
to network connectivity
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
In the activity in this module you will configure route tables for VPCs that you want to connect to each other.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question to discuss in class.
The next slide describes the lab in this module.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab
• Creating a VPC Peering Connection
This module includes the guided lab that is listed. In this lab, you create and configure a peer connection
between two VPCs. Additional information about this lab is included in the student guide where the lab takes
place, and the lab environment provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to design for failover capability and
designing connected adequate bandwidth to accommodate
networks:
applications deployed on premises, in the
cloud, or as a hybrid solution, so that my
networks perform as needed.
• I need to choose network components
that optimize performance and reduce
data transfer costs between networks, so
that I can maximize the business value.
• I need to protect data in transit between
networks, so that I can meet data security
compliance requirements.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module, remembering that the
cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example
business need, and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Scaling your VPC network with AWS
Transit Gateway
Connecting Networks
This section looks at connecting multiple VPCs with AWS Transit Gateway.
=== Page 11 ===
Network design with multiple VPCs
Full mesh architecture Hub-and-spoke architecture
Now that you know how to create a VPC and its components, you should expand your network design to
multiple networks. For example, when your business or architecture expands, you might need to separate
logical elements for security, for architectural purposes, or for management simplicity. However, many VPC
environments do need connectivity to other network environments. Many enterprise organizations deploy
hundreds of VPCs that need connectivity to each other.
When your architecture requires multiple VPCs, you can design each VPC to connect to each of the other
required VPCs. This design is called full mesh architecture where every node is directly connected to every other
node. This design works well for networks with a small number of VPCs that require fast network speeds with
little network latency. In the example on this slide, four VPCs are connected with six connections. The number
of connection links required for a given number of nodes (N) can be calculated as N * (N –1) / 2. Therefore, for
100 nodes, you will need to configure 100 * 99 / 2 = 4,950 connections. This architecture creates a heavy
operational and maintenance effort for network engineers.
Another approach is to use a hub-and-spoke architecture where there is a central intermediary hub to manage
connectivity. Each node requires only one connection to the hub. In the example on this slide, four VPCs need
four connections to communicate through the hub. For a 100 nodes, you will need to configure 100
connections. This architecture significantly simplifies management and reduces operational effort. This design
works well for networks with a large number of VPCs that can tolerate the added latency for hub processing.
=== Page 12 ===
AWS Transit Gateway
• Is a centralized, Regional router to connect VPCs
and on-premises networks based on hub-and-
spoke architecture
• Is a managed AWS service that automatically scales
based on the volume of network traffic
• Can be peered with other transit gateways in other
AWS Regions and AWS accounts
Transit Gateway • Incurs cost charges based on the number of
connections and amount of traffic throughput
• Has a Transit Gateway Flow Logs feature to publish
transit gateway traffic logs
Transit Gateway is a managed AWS service that you can use to connect your VPCs and on-premises networks to
a single gateway called a transit gateway. With the Transit Gateway service, you create and manage only a single
connection from the central gateway into each VPC, on-premises data center, or remote office across your
network. Transit Gateway simplifies network management and scaling as workloads expand because it
automatically scales based on traffic throughput. You can use it to connect thousands of VPCs and on-premises
networks. Transit Gateway charges per hour for the number of connections that you make to the transit
gateway and the amount of traffic that flows through the transit gateway. For more information, see Transit
Gateway pricing link in resource list.
Transit Gateway uses a hub-and-spoke architecture. Any new VPC connected to the transit gateway is
automatically available to every other network that is connected to the transit gateway. Transit Gateway
supports dynamic and static routing between attached VPCs. Static routes are configured before network traffic
can be routed. Dynamic routing requires routers to exchange route information with other routers to discover
routing paths when traffic is routed. Transit Gateway supports both IPv4 and IPv6 traffic.
Transit gateways can be peered with each other within the same AWS Region or between different AWS
Regions. Transit Gateway traffic always stays on the global AWS backbone infrastructure and never traverses the
public internet. This reduces threat vectors such as common exploits and distributed denial of service (DDoS)
attacks.
Transit Gateway Flow Logs is a feature that you can use to capture information about the IP traffic going to and
from your transit gateways. Flow log data can be published to Amazon CloudWatch Logs, Amazon Simple
Storage Service (Amazon S3), or Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose.
=== Page 13 ===
Centralized VPC routing pattern
VPC 1 route table
Destination Target 3
10.1.0.0/16 local 1 Transit gateway route
Transit table
10.0.0.0/8 gateway
Destination Target
2 Transit
gateway
10.1.0.0/16
attachment
VPC 2 route table VPC 1 ID
Destination Target Transit
gateway
10.2.0.0/16 local 1 10.2.0.0/16 attachment
Transit VPC 2 ID
10.0.0.0/8 gateway
To understand how to connect multiple VPCs by using Transit Gateway, consider this scenario. You want to fully
connect multiple VPCs in your network, and each VPC should have full access to the resources of all other VPCs.
In this scenario, you will learn how to deploy Transit Gateway and the VPCs with nonoverlapping IP address
space in a single Region. You will then learn how to attach the transit gateway to the VPCs. Every new VPC that
is added to the transit gateway will be accessible from the existing VPCs:
1. Create a VPC attachment by using Transit Gateway. This step will connect the transit gateway to the VPC
through an elastic network interface deployed in the subnets. You must ensure that every Availability Zone
in the VPC has a network interface to connect the VPC to the transit gateway. You can do this by selecting at
least one subnet from each Availability Zone for the network interface.
2. Add a transit gateway route to each VPC route table to send traffic that’s destined for all of the other VPCs
in the network to the transit gateway. In this example, the second line of the VPC 1 route table shows that
traffic destined for the 10.0.0.0/8 network is sent to the transit gateway. This route makes it possible for any
traffic from VPC 1 going to other VPCs to be sent to the transit gateway. This occurs because the Classless
Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) block 10.0.0.0/8 includes the 10.X.0.0/16 CIDR blocks, which are used by the
individual VPCs. It is a wild card routing CIDR block and is not the same as a VPC CIDR block that has a
maximum CIDR block range of /16.
3. Configure the transit gateway route table to route traffic to the connected VPCs. When you create a transit
gateway, a default transit gateway route table is created. Each route in the transit gateway route table gives
the transit gateway the ability to send traffic destined for one of the VPCs to a corresponding attachment,
which is a reference to the network interface that is attached to the VPC itself. In this example, there is a
route in the transit gateway route table that sends any traffic destined for the 10.1.0.0/16 network to the
transit gateway attachment VPC 1. Similarly, any traffic destined for the VPC 2 network is sent to the VPC 2
transit gateway attachment. A transit gateway can have multiple route tables, and attachments are
associated with a specific route table.
You can extend this example to include hundreds of VPCs within the routable 10.0.0.0/8 IP address range.
=== Page 14 ===
Centralized routing pattern for outbound traffic
VPC 1 route table Transit gateway route
table
Destination Target
Destination Target
10.1.0.0/16 local
Transit
Transit
0.0.0.0/0 gateway
gateway ID 10.1.0.0/16
attachment
VPC 1 ID
Transit
Subnet 2 route table gateway
10.2.0.0/16
attachment
Destination Target
VPC 2 ID
10.1.0.0/16 local
NAT Egress VPC route table
0.0.0.0/0
gateway ID
Destination Target
10.2.0.0/16 local
Transit
10.1.0.0/16
gateway ID
Internet
0.0.0.0/0
gateway ID
You can design a dedicated VPC to handle egress internet traffic for added outbound network security. This
pattern is called centralized outbound routing and will route any internet traffic from VPC 1 to the egress VPC
that contains a NAT gateway. In the example on this slide, applications in VPC 1 need outbound-only internet
access. VPC 1 is already connected to the egress VPC with Transit Gateway based on the centralized VPC routing
pattern. The egress VPC subnet 2 route table is configured to point to the NAT gateway in the public subnet 3 of
the egress VPC. The egress VPC route table has a rule to route all traffic to the internet gateway. This pattern
provides a centralized gate for outbound traffic for monitoring and security purposes. It is also cost efficient to
run NAT gateways in one VPC instead of having a NAT gateway for each VPC. For redundancy, run a NAT gateway
for each Availability Zone in the egress VPC.
You can also use this design to centralize access to shared services such as traffic inspection, or interface VPC
endpoint access. One VPC is the designated service VPC that all other VPCs use. This centralization simplifies the
complexity of managing these resources in several VPCs and provides better access control.
Transit gateway connectivity to on-premises networks is discussed later in the module.
=== Page 15 ===
Transit gateway peering
Transit gateway A route table Transit gateway B route table
Destination Target Destination Target
10.1.0.0/16 Transit gateway attachment VPC 1 ID 1 11.1.0.0/16 Transit gateway attachment VPC 3 ID 4
10.2.0.0/16 Transit gateway attachment VPC 2 ID 2 10.1.0.0/16 Transit gateway peering attachment ID 3
11.1.0.0/16 Transit gateway peering attachment ID 3 10.2.0.0/16 Transit gateway peering attachment ID 3
Image description: In the example on this slide, transit gateway A has two VPC attachments and has one transit
gateway peering attachment labelled as 3. Transit gateway attachment VPC 1 is labelled as 1. Transit gateway
attachment VPC 2 is labelled as 2. Transit gateway B has one VPC attachment. Transit gateway attachment VPC 3
is labelled as 4. Network traffic from the subnets in VPC 1 and VPC 2 that have VPC 3 as a destination first route
through transit gateway A, then transit gateway B, and then to VPC 3. End of image description.
If you need network traffic to flow between AWS Regions or different AWS accounts, you can create a transit
gateway peering connection between transit gateways. You can then route traffic between the attachments for
each of the transit gateways.
To provide traffic flow between two transit gateways, create a transit gateway peering attachment on your
transit gateway, and specify a target transit gateway. The target transit gateway can be in your account or a
different AWS account. After you create a peering attachment request, the owner of the target transit gateway
(also referred to as theaccepter transit gateway) must accept the request. To route traffic between the transit
gateways, add a static route to the transit gateway route table that points to the transit gateway peering
attachment.
In the example on this slide, CIDR blocks for each VPC propagate to the transit gateway default route tables.
The propagated routes are labelled as 1, 2, and 4 in the transit gateway route tables. Each transit gateway route
table has a static route that points to the transit gateway peering attachment labelled as 3 in the routing tables.
A peered transit gateway can reside in a different AWS Region or AWS account than the original transit gateway.
This provides seamless communication between VPCs located in different AWS accounts or Regions, making
data transfers efficient and reliable. Traffic between Regions is secure because it does not traverse the public
internet.
=== Page 16 ===
Company group of departments use case
Scenario:
A company has multiple IT
departments, each with their own
VPC. Some VPCs are located within
the same AWS account, and others
in a different AWS account. All the
VPCs should be peered together to
let the IT departments have full
access to each others' resources. The
company is considering adding
accounts of other business groups in
the future.
The solution that requires the least maintenance and effort for your company is connecting each department’s
VPC to a transit gateway. This solution would provide adequate capacity for future growth.
Alternatively, if one VPC needs access to only one other VPC, the route tables can be updated to limit traffic to
the specified IP address range of the target VPC.
=== Page 17 ===
Activity: • Configure routes for five VPCs that you
Configure AWS want to connect to each other through
Transit Gateway Transit Gateway.
Routes
• Configure routes in the VPC route tables.
• Configure routes in the transit gateway
route table.
=== Page 18 ===
Configure the VPC route tables
Which routes are necessary to add to each of the VPC route tables to provide
full connectivity between all five VPCs?
Transit gateway VPC route table VPC route
VPC ID VPC CIDR VPC route table ID
VPC attachment ID destination table target
vpc-a 10.1.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-a rtb-vpc-a ? ?
vpc-b 10.2.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-b rtb-vpc-a ? ?
vpc-c 10.3.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-c rtb-vpc-a ? ?
vpc-d 10.4.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-d rtb-vpc-a ? ?
vpc-e 10.5.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-e rtb-vpc-a ? ?
For each VPC route table, provide a destination and a target to let traffic flow from the VPC to transit gateway
tgw-1. The transit gateway ID is tgw-1. VPC routing to all VPCs can be achieved with CIDR block 10.0.0.0/8.
The following are the definitions of the terms in the table columns:
• VPC ID: This is a unique identifier for each VPC.
• VPC CIDR: This represents the IP address range for the VPC.
• Transit gateway attachment ID: This ID represents the connection between the VPC and the transit gateway.
• VPC route table ID: Every VPC has a route table, and this ID uniquely identifies the route table.
• Destination: This is the IP address range that the route table directs traffic to.
• Target: This is where the traffic is directed to.
=== Page 19 ===
Configure the transit gateway tgw-1 route table
Which routes are necessary to add to the transit gateway tgw-1 route table to
provide full connectivity between all five VPCs?
Transit gateway route table destination Transit gateway route table target
? ?
? ?
? ?
? ?
? ?
Provide the route destination and target for the transit gateway tgw-1 route table for each VPC in the previous
slide to complete your transit gateway route configuration.
The following are the definitions of the terms in the table columns:
• Transit gateway route table destination: This is the destination CIDR to route to.
• Transit gateway route table target: This is the target attachment to route to.
=== Page 20 ===
Solution: VPC route tables
Transit gateway VPC route table VPC route
VPC ID VPC CIDR VPC route table ID
VPC attachment ID destination table target
vpc-a 10.1.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-a rtb-vpc-a 10.0.0.0/8 tgw-1
vpc-b 10.2.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-b rtb-vpc-a 10.0.0.0/8 tgw-1
vpc-c 10.3.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-c rtb-vpc-a 10.0.0.0/8 tgw-1
vpc-d 10.4.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-d rtb-vpc-a 10.0.0.0/8 tgw-1
vpc-e 10.5.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-e rtb-vpc-a 10.0.0.0/8 tgw-1
For each VPC route table, provide a destination and a target to provide traffic flow from the VPC to transit
gateway tgw-1. The transit gateway ID is tgw-1. VPC routing to all VPCs can be achieved with CIDR block
10.0.0.0/8. Although 0.0.0.0/0 for all traffic could be used, it is better to limit the routing between VPCs CIDR
ranges only.
=== Page 21 ===
Solution: Transit gateway tgw-1 route table
Transit gateway route table destination Transit gateway route table target
10.1.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-a
10.2.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-b
10.3.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-c
10.4.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-d
10.5.0.0/16 tgw-attach-vpc-e
The transit gateway route table destination is the CIDR block of the VPC with the target as the transit gateway
VPC attachment ID.
=== Page 22 ===
Key takeaways: • Transit Gateway is a centralized Regional
Scaling your VPC router to connect VPCs.
network with
• Transit Gateway can be peered with other
Transit Gateway
transit gateways in other AWS Regions
and AWS accounts.
• Transit Gateway supports thousands of
attachments.
• Transit Gateway charges per hour for the
number of connections that you make to
the transit gateway and the amount of
traffic that flows through the transit
gateway.
=== Page 23 ===
Connecting VPCs in AWS with VPC
peering
Connecting Networks
This section looks at connecting multiple VPCs in AWS by using the VPC peering feature.
=== Page 24 ===
Mesh architecture using VPC peering
When you have a small number of VPCs or your networking budget is constrained by paying for a transit
gateway, you can use the VPC peering feature to establish a one-to-one network connection between two VPCs.
VPC peering is a feature of the Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) service, and creating a VPC peering
connection does not incur any costs. Because it is a point-to-point peer, the network overhead is very small, and
the network latency is low.
VPC peering lets Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances in two VPCs to communicate with each
other by using private IP addresses as if they are in the same network. You can create a VPC peering connection
between your own VPCs, with a VPC in another AWS account, or with a VPC in a different AWS Region. Inter-
Region VPC peering provides a cost-effective way to share resources between Regions or replicate data for
geographic redundancy. Data that is transferred across inter-Region or inter-Availability Zone VPC peering
connections is charged at the standard data transfer rates.
VPC peering connections do not share traffic with other VPC peering connections, and the traffic remains in the
private IP address space. Traffic also always stays on the global AWS backbone. This means that traffic never
traverses the public internet, which reduces threats, such as common exploits and DDoS attacks. All inter-
Region traffic is encrypted, and there is no single point of failure or bandwidth bottlenecks.
A VPC peering connection helps you to facilitate the transfer of data. For example, if you have more than one
AWS account, you can peer the VPCs across those accounts to create a file-sharing network. You can also use a
VPC peering connection to give other VPCs the ability to access resources that you have in one of your VPCs.
=== Page 25 ===
Establishing VPC peering
VPC A route table VPC B route table
Destination Target Destination Target
10.1.0.0/16 local 10.2.0.0/16 local
10.2.0.0/16 VPC A-B peering connection ID 10.1.0.0/16 VPC A-B peering connection ID
In the example on this slide, a VPC peering connection between VPC A and VPC B is required. The owner of VPC
A sends a peering request to the owner of VPC B. To activate the peering connection, the owner of VPC B must
accept the VPC A peering connection request. The CIDR block of VPC A cannot overlap with the CIDR block of
VPC B.
To provide the flow of the traffic between the VPC peers by using private IP addresses, the owner of VPC A must
add a route to the VPC A route table. This route destination is the IP address range of VPC B 10.2.0.0/16. The
target of the route is the VPC A-B peering connection ID. The owner of VPC B should also add a route to the VPC
B route table. This route destination is the IP address range of VPC A 10.1.0.0/16. The target of the route is the
VPC A-B peering connection ID.
The owners of VPC A and VPC B might also need to update the security group rules that are associated with the
VPC instances so that traffic to and from the peer VPC is not restricted.
A practical application of VPC peering would be two startups collaborating on a project. They can establish VPC
peering to share resources securely. This setup lets them to communicate over the private network
infrastructure of AWS, helping to ensure faster and more secure data exchange without exposing their
resources to the public internet.
=== Page 26 ===
VPC peering does not support transitive peering
VPC B can get and
VPC A can get and VPC C can get and
send network
send network send network
traffic to VPC A
traffic to VPC B. traffic to VPC B.
and VPC C.
Transitive peering is not supported by VPC peering. This makes peering secure and manageable to isolate errors
and limit the blast radius for network attacks.
For example, in the diagram, VPC A and VPC B are peered, and VPC B and VPC C are peered. However, this does
not mean that the VPC A is connected to VPC C. By default, VPC peering does not let VPC A to connect to VPC C
unless they are explicitly established as peers. Therefore, you control which VPCs can communicate with each
other and which VPCs should be isolated with minimal access.
The following are other limitations for a VPC peering connection:
• VPC peering is not possible between VPCs that have matching or overlapping CIDR blocks.
• If either VPC has an internet or NAT gateway that is in a peering connection, the VPC does not have access to
the internet or NAT gateway residing in the other VPC.
• Only VPC owners can work with their VPC peering connections.
=== Page 27 ===
VPC peering configurations with specific routes
VPC A subnet route table VPC B subnet route table
Destination Target Destination Target
10.1.0.0/16 local 10.2.0.0/16 local
10.2.1.18/32 VPC A-B peering connection ID 10.1.1.0/20 VPC A-B peering connection ID
You can configure route tables for a VPC peering connection to restrict access to a subnet CIDR block, a specific
CIDR block if the VPC has multiple CIDR blocks, or a specific resource IP address in the peer VPC.
In the example on this slide, the VPC A subnet route table has a route defined to the EC2 instance in VPC B. The
route table destination is the private IP of the EC2 instance 10.2.1.18/32 with a target of the VPC A-B peering
connection. The VPC B subnet route table has a route defined to the VPC A subnet. The route table destination
is the VPC A subnet CIDR block of 10.1.1.0/20 with a target of the VPC A-B peering connection.
=== Page 28 ===
Use cases: Peering to one VPC to access centralized resources
1. File sharing VPC 2. Customer shared VPC 3. Active Directory VPC
The following are examples of a central VPC that provides a service for other VPCs to access:
1. Your company's IT department has a VPC for file sharing. You want to peer other VPCs to that central VPC;
however, you do not want the other VPCs to send traffic to each other.
2. Your company has a VPC that you want to share with your customers. Each customer can create a VPC
peering connection with your VPC; however, your customers cannot route traffic to other VPCs that are
peered to yours, nor are they aware of the other customers' routes.
3. You have a central VPC that is used for Active Directory services. Specific instances in peer VPCs send
requests to the Active Directory servers and require full access to the central VPC. The central VPC does not
require full access to the peer VPCs; it needs only to route response traffic to the specific instances.
=== Page 29 ===
VPC connectivity with AWS PrivateLink architecture
No peering connection is
needed when using AWS
PrivateLink with a
Network Load Balancer.
Up to this point, you have connected VPCs at the network level, but what if you want to connect VPCs on an
application level? Alternatively, what if you want to connect to a VPC with overlapping IP address ranges?
You can use AWS PrivateLink to privately connect to a service or application that resides in a service provider
VPC from consumer VPCs within an AWS Region. The benefit of this architecture is that only consumer VPCs
initiate connections to the service provider VPC.
In the example on this slide, the service provider VPC has a Network Load Balancer with EC2 instances as
targets. The owner of the consumer VPC creates a VPC elastic network interface endpoint to the network load
balancer endpoint. In this scenario, the consumer and service provider VPCs can have overlapping IP address
ranges of 10.1.0.0/16.
=== Page 30 ===
Key takeaways:
• VPC peering establishes a one-to-one
Connecting VPCs in peering networking connection between two
VPCs to provide private network traffic
AWS with VPC
routes.
peering
• VPC peering does not incur costs, but
transferring data across Availability Zones
and Regions does.
• VPC peering can provide network traffic flow
between different AWS accounts and AWS
Regions.
• VPC peering does not support transitive VPC
peering relationships.
• If VPC Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
blocks overlap, use PrivateLink with a
Network Load Balancer to establish VPC
connectivity.
=== Page 31 ===
Guided lab: Creating a VPC Peering
Connection (VPC Peering Lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 32 ===
VPC Peering Lab • In this lab, you will perform the following
tasks main tasks:
• Create a peering connection between two
VPCs.
• Configure route tables to send traffic to the
peering connection.
• Test the peering connection.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 33 ===
Debrief: VPC peering lab
• What did you learn about the VPC peering connection process?
• How were you able to confirm that the VPC peering worked?
=== Page 34 ===
Connecting to your remote network
with AWS Site-to-Site VPN
Connecting Networks
This section looks at how to connect to an Amazon virtual private cloud (VPC) from an on-premises remote
network.
=== Page 35 ===
Connecting on-premises environments to a VPC
Now that you can connect VPCs to each other, how can you connect to your VPC from an on-premises corporate
environment? By default, instances that you launch into a VPC on AWS cannot communicate with your on-
premises network.
=== Page 36 ===
AWS Site-to-Site VPN
•Creates a secure connection between an on-
premises customer gateway and AWS virtual
private gateway (or transit gateway) for VPC
access
•Creates two encrypted IPsec VPN tunnels for
each connection across multiple Availability
Site-to-Site VPN
Zones
•Charges for each VPN connection-hour
You can use AWS Site-to-Site VPN to securely connect your on-premises environment to your VPC. Each Site-to-
Site VPN connection uses internet protocol security (IPsec) connections to create encrypted virtual private
network (VPN) tunnels between two locations. A VPN tunnel is an encrypted link where data can pass from the
customer network to or from AWS over the public internet. Site-to-Site VPN can be set up relatively quickly and
can be available in hours.
The on-premises side of the connection is the customer gateway. The AWS side of the connection is the virtual
private gateway. Instead of a virtual private gateway, you can also create a Site-to-Site VPN connection as an
attachment on a transit gateway.
A Site-to-Site VPN connection provides two VPN tunnels across multiple Availability Zones that you can use
simultaneously for high availability. You can stream primary traffic through the first tunnel and use the second
tunnel for redundancy. If one tunnel goes down, traffic will still get delivered to your VPC.
If you create a Site-to-Site VPN connection to your VPC, you are charged for each VPN connection-hour that
your VPN connection is provisioned and available.
=== Page 37 ===
Creating a Site-to-Site VPN connection
3 4
To create a Site-to-Site VPN connection, complete the following steps:
1. Create a VPC customer gateway. When you create a Site-to-Site VPN connection from your on-premises
network to your VPC, a VPC customer gateway represents the customer gateway device. The customer
gateway device can be a physical device or a software application residing in the on-premises network.
Assign a Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Autonomous System Number (ASN) to the customer gateway if the
customer gateway device supports BGP.
2. Create a virtual private gateway and specify a custom private BGP ASN or use the Amazon default ASN. This
ASN must be different from the ASN that you specified for the customer gateway. You can use Transit
Gateway as an alternative solution instead of the virtual private gateway.
3. Configure routing to let instances in your VPC to reach your customer gateway. You must configure your
route table to include the routes that your VPN connection uses and point them to your virtual private
gateway. You can activate route propagation for your route table to automatically propagate Site-to-Site VPN
routes. In the example on this slide, each VPN connection tunnel is routed to a different Availability Zone to
help ensure high availability.
4. Update security groups to allow Secure Shell Protocol (SSH), Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Internet
Control Message Protocol (ICMP), or other desired protocols access from the on-premises network.
5. Create the Site-to-Site VPN connection to contain the customer gateway, the virtual private gateway, and the
VPN connection with two tunnels connecting to separate Availability Zones. It is important to note that the
VPN uses internet connectivity for the VPN connection tunnels and is not guaranteed to be available.
6. Download the configuration file and use it to configure the customer gateway device.
The VPN supports dynamic and static routing depending on the make and model of the customer gateway
device. If the device supports BGP, specify dynamic routing. Dynamic routing uses the BGP to advertise routes
to the virtual private gateway. If the device does not support BGP, specify static routing. Static routing requires
that you specify the routes with IP prefixes for your network that should be communicated to the virtual private
gateway. AWS will provide the required connection and tunnel configuration information for the specified
customer gateway device. AWS recommends BGP-capable devices because BGP offers robust health checks to
assist failover to another VPN connection tunnel.
=== Page 38 ===
Connecting multiple on-premises networks by using AWS VPN CloudHub
Large corporate organizations usually have multiple on-premises network environments that can be physically
located at different premises far apart. If the environments need primary or backup connectivity to each of the
other environments, you need a centralized hub to facilitate connectivity.
Building on the AWS managed VPN options described previously, you can securely communicate from one
environment to another by using the AWS VPN CloudHub. The AWS VPN CloudHub operates on a simple hub-
and-spoke model that you can use with or without the Amazon VPC service. In the example on this slide,
internet VPN connection 1 carries traffic from on-premises network 1 to on-premises networks 2 and 3 and
back. Similarly, internet VPN connections 2 and 3 carry traffic to and from the other on-premises networks.
AWS VPN CloudHub uses a virtual private gateway with multiple customer gateways, each of which uses unique
BGP ASNs. The customer gateways advertise the appropriate routes over their VPN connections. These routing
advertisements are received and re-advertised to each BGP peer so that each site can send data to and receive
data from the other environments. The remote sites must not have overlapping IP ranges.
=== Page 39 ===
Accelerating Site-to-site VPN connections
Because public internet traffic can potentially have network disruptions, you can use AWS Global Accelerator to
accelerate your Site-to-Site VPN connection. An accelerated VPN connection uses Global Accelerator to route
traffic from your on-premises network to an AWS edge location that is closest to your customer gateway device.
Network traffic is now using the AWS backbone infrastructure to efficiently route traffic from the edge location
to the transit gateway with better response times. Note that acceleration is supported only for VPN connections
that are attached to a transit gateway and not a virtual private gateway.
In the example on this slide, the on-premises network has a VPN connection that connects to Global
Accelerator. Global Accelerator is connected to the Transit Gateway through the transit gateway VPN
attachment. The Transit Gateway connects to the VPC through the Transit Gateway VPC attachment.
To test the difference between public internet speeds and Global Accelerator from various Regions to your
location, see the AWS Global Accelerator Speed Comparison in resource links.
=== Page 40 ===
Isolating VPCs with full VPN access by using Transit Gateway
On-premises route table
Destination Target
10.X.0.0/16 local
0.0.0.0/0 Transit gateway ID
Transit gateway VPN route table Transit gateway VPC route table
Destination Target Destination Target
10.1.0.0/16 Transit gateway attachment VPC 1 ID 10.99.99.0/24 Transit gateway VPN attachment ID
10.2.0.0/16 Transit gateway attachment VPC 2 ID
So far, you have learned how to create a network that is designed for full sharing of all resources in all the
connected environments. What about a requirement that the on-premises network have full access to the VPCs
but that the VPCs be isolated from each other?
Fortunately, you can configure your transit gateway as multiple isolated routers. This is similar to using multiple
transit gateways but provides more flexibility in cases where the routes and attachments might change. For one
transit gateway, you can create multiple route tables. Each transit gateway attachment is associated with a
route table. Attachments associated with one isolated routing table can route packets to each other but cannot
route packets to or receive packets from the attachments for another isolated router.
In the example on this slide, each VPC has a route table with the transit gateway ID as a target for all traffic. The
transit gateway has two route tables. The transit gateway VPN route table is associated with the transit gateway
VPN attachment. The transit gateway VPC route table is associated with the transit gateway VPC attachments.
Network traffic from VPC 1 and VPC 2 that is destined for the on-premises network routes to the transit
gateway and then to the internet VPN connection to arrive at the on-premises network. Network traffic from
VPC 1 that has a destination of a subnet in VPC 2 10.2.0.0 routes through the transit gateway, where it is
blocked because there is no route in the transit gateway VPC route table.
=== Page 41 ===
Key takeaways: • Site-to-Site VPN creates a secure
Connecting to your connection between an on-premises
remote network customer gateway and an AWS virtual
with Site-to-Site private gateway (or transit gateway) for
VPN VPC access.
• You can connect multiple on-premises
networks to a single virtual private
gateway.
• Use Global Accelerator to accelerate Site-
to-Site VPN connections.
• Configure multiple Transit Gateway
routing tables to isolate VPCs to provide
full VPN access.
=== Page 42 ===
Connecting to your remote network
with AWS Direct Connect
Connecting Networks
This section looks at how to connect to an Amazon virtual private cloud (VPC) from an on-premises remote
network by using AWS Direct Connect.
=== Page 43 ===
AWS Direct Connect
•Is a dedicated, private, virtual local area
network (VLAN) connection that extends on-
premises network to include AWS resources
•Provides a consistent network experience
with predictable performance and increased
Direct Connect bandwidth and throughput
As you learned, Site-to-Site VPN is one option for connecting your on-premises network to the AWS global
network. Data is transferred through encrypted tunnels over the public internet.
Direct Connect is another solution that goes beyond connectivity over the internet. Direct Connect uses virtual
local area networks (VLANs) so that you can establish a dedicated, private network connection from your on-
premises network to AWS. This private connection extends your private network to include AWS resources. The
benefits of using Direct Connect are that it increases bandwidth throughput and provides a more consistent
network experience than internet-based connections.
=== Page 44 ===
Direct Connect use cases
Security and
Predictable network
Hybrid environments Large datasets compliance
performance
requirements
Direct Connect is useful for several scenarios, such as the following:
• For applications that require access to existing data center equipment, such as an on-premises database,
Direct Connect gives you the ability to create a hybrid environment so that you can take advantage of the
elasticity and economic benefits of AWS.
• For applications that operate on large datasets, such as high performance computing (HPC) applications,
transferring large datasets over the internet between your data center and the AWS Cloud can be time
consuming and expensive. For such applications, connecting to the AWS Cloud by using Direct Connect is a
good solution for the following reasons:
• Network transfers will not compete for internet bandwidth at your data center.
• The high-bandwidth link reduces the potential for network congestion and degraded application
performance.
• By limiting the internet bandwidth that your applications use, you can reduce network fees that you
pay to your internet service provider (ISP) and avoid having to pay for increased internet bandwidth
commitments or new contracts. In addition, all data that is transferred over Direct Connect is charged
at the reduced Direct Connect data transfer rate instead of internet data transfer rates, which can
reduce your network costs.
• For applications that require predictable network performance, Direct Connect is a good solution. Examples
include applications that operate on real-time data feeds, such as audio or video streams. In such cases, a
dedicated network connection can provide more-consistent network performance than standard internet
connectivity.
• For enterprise security or regulatory policies which sometimes require that applications hosted on the AWS
Cloud should be accessed only through private network circuits. Direct Connect is a solution to this
requirement because traffic between your data center and your application flows through the dedicated
private network connection.
=== Page 45 ===
Extend an on-premises network to AWS by using Direct Connect
Private virtual
interface
VLAN 1
VLAN 2
Public virtual
interface
Direct Connect (DX) makes use of Direct Connect locations to extend your on-premises network to AWS by
using industry-standard 802.1Q VLANs. By default, these locations are associated with an AWS Region. However,
you can access any VPC or public AWS service in any Region (except China) from any supported Direct Connect
location.
With Direct Connect, you have a choice of two types of connections to the Direct Connect location: dedicated or
hosted connections. A dedicated connection is where a physical ethernet fiber-optic cableis provisioned for
exclusive use by the customer. The on-premises customer router will be connected by the ethernet connection
to the customer router in the Direct Connect location. A hosted connection is where a physical ethernet fiber-
optic cableis provisioned by a Direct Connect Partner and shared with the customer. This provides a customer
with more bandwidth options in smaller increments than a dedicated connection. The customer Direct Connect
router is connected to a Direct Connect endpoint in the Direct Connect location to connect to AWS services,
including VPCs. A Direct Connect connection takes planning and physical resources, so the implementation time
typically spans multiple weeks.
With a Direct Connect connection, you can create three types of virtual interfaces: public, private, and transit
virtual interfaces:
• A public virtual interface provides access to public AWS services, such as Amazon S3. In the example on this
slide, the public virtual interface is designated by green arrows.
• A private virtual interface provides access to your VPC by using a virtual private gateway.
• A transit virtual interface provides access to your VPC by using a transit gateway.
In the example on this slide, the VLAN 1 connection is established from the on-premises customer router to the
Direct Connect location customer Direct Connect router and Direct Connect endpoint. The Direct Connect
endpoint connects to a VPC virtual private gateway through a private virtual interface. The VLAN 2 connection is
established from the on-premises customer router to the Direct Connect location customer Direct Connect
router and Direct Connect endpoint. The Direct Connect endpoint connects to Amazon S3 through a public
virtual interface.
For more information, see AWS Direct Connect Locations on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 46 ===
Direct Connect using Transit Gateway
Transit virtual
interface
VLAN 3
You can also use Direct Connect to connect to a Transit Gateway instead of a virtual private gateway to simplify
routing between the on-premises network and multiple VPCs. The transit gateway has a Transit Gateway Direct
Connect attachment pointing to a Direct Connect gateway. You can use the Direct Connect gateway to connect
to multiple Transit Gateways. The solution uses a transit virtual interface to communicate from the Direct
Connect location to the Direct Connect gateway.
In the example on this slide, the VLAN 3 connection is established from the on-premises customer router to the
Direct Connect location customer Direct Connect router and Direct Connect endpoint. The Direct Connect
endpoint connects to a Direct Connect gateway endpoint through a transit virtual interface. The Direct Connect
gateway is connected to the transit gateway through the transit gateway Direct Connect attachment. The Transit
Gateway is connected to the VPC through the transit gateway VPC attachment.
=== Page 47 ===
High availability Direct Connect and backup VPN use case
Primary
connection
Secondary
backup
connection
You can implement highly available connectivity between your data centers and your VPC by coupling one or
more Direct Connect connections that you use for primary connectivity with a lower-cost backup VPN
connection.
In this example, the configuration consists of two dynamically routed connections—one that uses Direct
Connect and another that uses a VPN connection—from two different customer devices. AWS provides example
router configurations to help you establish both Direct Connect and dynamically routed VPN connections. By
default, AWS will always prefer to send traffic over your Direct Connect connection, so you do not need
additional configurations specific to AWS to define primary and backup connections. However, you should
configure Direct Connect and VPN-specific internal-route propagation to help ensure that internal systems
select the appropriate paths.
With this approach, you can choose the primary network path and network provider for your AWS traffic, with
the option of using a different provider for a backup VPN connection. Choose network providers and Direct
Connect locations that align with your organization’s risk tolerance, financial expectations, and data center
connectivity policies.
There are many ways to increase your network availability. You can use multiple Direct Connect circuits and
multiple VPN tunnels between separately deployed private IP address spaces. You can also use multiple Direct
Connect locations for high availability. If you use multiple AWS Regions, you will also need multiple Direct
Connect locations in at least two Regions. You might want to evaluate AWS Marketplace appliances that shut
down VPNs.
=== Page 48 ===
High resiliency with multiple Direct Connect locations
For critical production workloads that require high resiliency, AWS recommends that you have one connection
at multiple locations. As this architecture diagram shows, such a topology helps ensure resilience against
connectivity failures due to a hardware failure or a complete location failure. In the example on this slide, on-
premises network 1 connects to the virtual private gateway through Direct Connect location 1. If Direct Connect
location 1 fails or there are issues with on-premises network 1, then on-premises network 2 can still connect to
the virtual private gateway through Direct Connect location 2.
Highly resilient, fault-tolerant network connections are key to a well-architected system. AWS recommends
connecting from multiple data centers for physical location redundancy. When you design remote connections,
consider using redundant hardware and telecommunications providers.
Additionally, it is a best practice to use dynamically routed, active/active connections for automatic load
balancing and failover across redundant network connections. Provision sufficient network capacity to help
ensure that the failure of one network connection does not overwhelm and degrade redundant connections.
=== Page 49 ===
Key takeaways: • Direct Connect is a dedicated, private, VLAN
connection that extends an on-premises
Connecting to your
network to include AWS resources.
remote network
• Use a private virtual interface to connect a Direct
with Direct Connect location to a virtual private gateway.
Connect • Use a public virtual interface to connect a Direct
Connect location to supported AWS services.
• Use a transit virtual interface to connect a Direct
Connect location to a transit gateway through a
Direct Connect gateway.
• Make your network highly available by using
Direct Connect as a primary connection and a
VPN as a backup connection.
• Make your network highly resilient by
connecting from multiple on-premises
networks to AWS by using multiple Direct
Connect locations.
=== Page 50 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to network
connectivity
Connecting Networks
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework pillar principles to your network
connectivity.
=== Page 51 ===
AWS Well-Architected Framework network pillars
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module. For more information about best practices by
pillar, see the AWS Well-Architected website link in the course resources.
When you design connectivity to multiple networks, you should consider all the future planned workloads in
your on-premises and cloud environments. How do you ensure that a workload will be resilient, secure, high
performing, and cost effective when deployed over multiple networks? At the infrastructure level, you start by
designing your network to be resilient, secure, high performing, and cost effective.
=== Page 52 ===
Best practice approach: Foundations -plan your network topology
Best practices
Provision redundant connectivity
between private networks in the
cloud and in on-premises
environments.
Prefer hub-and-spoke topologies
over many-to-many mesh.
When you design your network, you should plan a resilient network topology. Resiliency implies that your
network’s workloads should function correctly and consistently when they are expected to. Your network
should anticipate possible network failures and accommodate future traffic growth so that workloads can run
on on-premises and AWS networks. This means resiliency is a shared responsibility between AWS and you. AWS
is responsible for the resiliency of the cloud network backbone, and you are responsible for implementing
resiliency on premises and in the AWS Cloud.
Provision redundant connectivity between private networks in the cloud and in on-premises environments:
AWS recommends having failover network mechanisms on premises and in the cloud for when an interruption
occurs. When you connect your VPC to your on-premises data center through VPN, you should consider the
resiliency and bandwidth requirements that you need. If you use a VPN appliance that is not resilient in its
implementation, then you should have a redundant connection through a second appliance. If you choose to
connect your VPC to your data center by using a Direct Connect connection and you need this connection to be
highly available, implement redundant Direct Connect connections from each data center. The redundant
connection should use a second Direct Connect connection from a different location than the first. If you have
multiple data centers, ensure that the connections point to different locations. You can also use a VPN as a
backup for a Direct Connect connection.
Prefer hub-and-spoke topologies over many-to-many mesh: AWS recommends using hub-and-spoke
topologies such as Transit Gateway rather than many-to-many mesh such as Amazon VPC peering. Transit
Gateway provides a hub-and-spoke model that routes traffic across your networks. Avoid implementing Amazon
VPC peering to connect more than two VPCs. Do not establish multiple BGP sessions for each VPC to create
connectivity to multiple VPCs across multiple AWS Regions.
=== Page 53 ===
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS network services that support these best
practices, including the following:
• Implement a VPN connection failover if Direct Connect between on-premises networks and AWS
VPC networks is not available.
• For multiple VPCs, implement a hub-and-spoke model for less connection maintenance and ease
of use.
For more information about reliability best practices, see the AWS Well-Architected Reliability Pillar
link in the course resources.
=== Page 54 ===
Best practice approach: Infrastructure protection –protecting networks
Best practice
Control traffic at all layers.
AWS recommends applying a zero trust approach to apply the principle of security at all layers. The careful
planning and management of your network design forms the foundation of how you provide isolation and
boundaries for resources within your hybrid workload running on premises and in the AWS Cloud.
Control traffic at all layers: AWS recommends establishing private network traffic by implementing Direct
Connect or Site-to-Site VPN to protect communication. Site-to-Site VPN creates a secure connection with
tunnels to traverse the public internet from an on-premises location to the AWS Cloud. Direct Connect
establishes a dedicated private line from an on-premises location to a Direct Connect location.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS network services that support these best practices,
including the following:
• Implement Site-to-Site VPN for private network traffic over the internet.
• Implement Direct Connect for a private, dedicated line to AWS.
For more information about security best practices, see AWS Well-Architected Security Pillar link in the course
resources.
=== Page 55 ===
Best practice approach: Data protection –protecting data in transit
Best practice
Authenticate network
communications.
Enforce encryption in transit.
Data in transitis any data that is sent from one system to another. This includes communication between
resources within your workload and communication between other services and your end users. By providing
the appropriate level of protection for your data in transit, you protect the confidentiality and integrity of your
workload’s data.
Authenticate network communications: AWS recommends verifying the identity of communications by using
protocols that support authentication, such as TLS or IPsec. Using network protocols that support
authentication establishes trust between the parties. This adds to the encryption used in the protocol to reduce
the risk of communications being altered or intercepted. Common protocols that implement authentication
include TLS, which is used in many AWS services, and IPsec, which is used in AWS VPNs.
Enforce encryption in transit: AWS recommends using protocols with encryption when transmitting sensitive
data outside of your VPC. Encryption helps maintain data confidentiality even when the data transits untrusted
networks. All data should be encrypted in transit by using TLS protocols and cipher suites. AWS recommends
using TLS version 1.3. Network traffic between your resources and the internet must be encrypted to mitigate
unauthorized access to the data. Consider protecting network-to-network traffic with an IPsec VPN or Direct
Connect to help ensure private network traffic.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS network services that support these best practices,
including the following:
• Implement Site-to-Site VPN by using the IPsec protocol to authenticate traffic to establish encrypted VPN
tunnels to AWS.
• Implement encryption and use Direct Connect for a private, dedicated line to AWS.
For more information about security best practices, see AWS Well-Architected Security Pillar link in the course
resources.
=== Page 56 ===
Best practice approach: Selection –network architecture selection
Best practices
Choose appropriately sized
dedicated connectivity or VPN for
hybrid workloads.
Choose your workload’s location
based on network requirements.
The optimal solution for a particular workload varies, and solutions often combine multiple approaches. Well-
architected workloads use multiple solutions and include different features to improve performance.
Choose appropriately sized dedicated connectivity or VPN for hybrid workloads: AWS recommends sizing
workload traffic that will need hybrid networking. There are multiple configuration options to choose from for
connectivity, such as a dedicated connection or VPN. Select the appropriate connection type for each workload
while verifying that you have adequate bandwidth and encryption requirements between your location and the
cloud. Estimate the bandwidth and latency requirements for your hybrid workload. These numbers will drive
the sizing requirements for your connectivity options.
Choose your workload’s location based on network requirements: AWS recommends evaluating options for
resource placement to reduce network latency and improve throughput, providing an optimal user experience
by reducing page load and data transfer times. If you have applications or users on-premises, you may benefit
from having a dedication network connection between your network and the cloud. A dedicated network
connection provided by Direct Connect can reduce the chance of encountering public internet congestion or
unexpected increases in latency. If you configure a Site-to-Site VPN to connect to your resources within AWS,
you can optionally turn on acceleration. An accelerated Site-to-Site VPN connection uses Global Accelerator to
route traffic from your on-premises network to an AWS edge location that is closest to your customer gateway
device.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS network services that support these best practices,
including the following:
• Evaluate workloads to estimate bandwidth and encryption requirements between a workload location and
AWS.
• If you have users or applications on-premises, implement Direct Connect for predictable performance.
For more information about performance efficiency best practices, see AWS Well-Architected Performance
Efficiency Pillar link in the course resources.
=== Page 57 ===
Best practice approach: Cost effective resources –plan for data transfer
Best practices
Select components to optimize data
transfer cost.
Implement services to reduce data
transfer costs.
A workload on a network should fully use all resources, achieve outcomes at the lowest possible price, and
meet functional requirements. Network costs should be included in the workload cost benchmark. The key to
saving on costs is to select the best pricing model with the appropriate network configurations for your
workloads.
Select components to optimize data transfer cost: AWS recommends architecting data transfer to minimize
data transfer costs. This may involve using content delivery networks to locate data closer to users or using a
dedicated network connection from your on-premises networks to AWS such as Direct Connect. You can also
use WAN optimization and application optimization to reduce the amount of data that is transferred between
components.
Implement services to reduce data transfer costs: AWS recommends implementing services to reduce data
transfer. By using data transfer modeling, look at where the largest costs and highest volume flows are. Review
the AWS services. Assess whether there is a service that reduces or removes the transfer, specifically
networking and content delivery. AWS prefers that customers use Direct Connect instead of VPN to connect to
AWS because Direct Connect provides predictable connectivity.
In this module, you've learned to use a dedicated network connection such as Direct Connect from an on-
premises environment to VPCs on your AWS account in order to optimize data transfer costs and provide
predictable data transfer cost.
For more information about cost optimization best practices, see AWS Well-Architected Cost Optimization link
in the course resources.
=== Page 58 ===
Key takeaways: • Provision redundant connectivity between private
networks in the cloud and in on-premises
Applying Well-
environments.
Architected
• Prefer hub-and-spoke topologies over many-to-
Framework
many mesh.
principles to your
• Control traffic at all layers.
network
• Authenticate network communications.
• Enforce data encryption in transit.
• Select components to optimize and reduce data
transfer cost.
• Choose appropriately sized dedicated connectivity
or VPN for hybrid workloads.
• Choose your workload’s location based on network
requirements.
=== Page 59 ===
Module wrap-up
Connecting Networks
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 60 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Describe how to connect an on-premises network to the AWS Cloud.
• Describe how to connect multiple VPCs in the AWS Cloud.
• Connect VPCs in the AWS Cloud by using VPC peering.
• Describe how to scale VPCs in the AWS Cloud.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when connecting
networks.
=== Page 61 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how you as a cloud architect might
advise the café based on the key cloud
architect concerns presented at the start of
this module.
=== Page 62 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 63 ===
Sample exam question
An application running on Amazon EC2 instances in a virtual private cloud (VPC) processes sensitive information stored on
Amazon S3. The information is accessed by using an Amazon S3 public Regional endpoint over the internet. The security team is
concerned that the internet connectivity to Amazon S3 is a security risk. Which solution will resolve the security concern with
the most efficient network route?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• EC2 instances in a VPC
• Sensitive information
• Internet connectivity to Amazon S3 is a security risk
• Most efficient network route
The question asks you to consider security and efficiency when deciding on the best solution.
=== Page 64 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
An application running on Amazon EC2 instances in a virtual private cloud (VPC) processes sensitive information stored on
Amazon S3. The information is accessed by using an Amazon S3 public regional endpoint over the internet. The security team is
concerned that the internet connectivity to Amazon S3 is a security risk. Which solution will resolve the security concern with
the most efficient network route?
Choice Response
A Access the data through an internet gateway.
B Access the data through a virtual private network (VPN) connection.
C Access the data through a NAT gateway.
D Access the data through a VPC endpoint for Amazon S3.
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 65 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is D.
Choice Response
D Access the data through a VPC endpoint for Amazon S3.
Choice A (Access the data through an internet gateway) can be eliminated because traffic will still be traversing
the internet and it is not the most efficient route.
Choice B (Access the data through a virtual private network [VPN] connection) can also be eliminated because
you cannot connect to Amazon S3 by VPN.
Choice C (Access the data through a NAT gateway) is not the most efficient way to route from an EC2 instance to
an S3 bucket because a NAT gateway uses additional network nodes while traversing the AWS backbone
network in a Region.
Choice D is the best choice. Use a gateway VPC endpoint for a no additional cost solution without bandwidth
and packet size limits.
=== Page 66 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.