# Clean Text Extracted from: 10.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:10
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 10 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 10: Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability 4
=== Page 4 ===
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity,
and High Availability
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the following:
objectives
• Examine how reactive architectures use Amazon
CloudWatch and Amazon EventBridge to monitor
metrics and facilitate notification events.
• Use Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling within an
architecture to promote elasticity and create a
highly available environment.
• Determine how to scale your database resources.
• Identify a load balancing strategy to create a highly
available environment.
• Use Amazon Route 53 for DNS failover.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing highly available systems.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demos
• Monitoring your resources • Creating Scaling Policies for Amazon EC2
Auto Scaling
• Scaling your compute resources
• Creating a Highly Available Application
• Scaling your databases
• Amazon Route 53: Simple Routing
• Using load balancers to create highly
available environments • Amazon Route 53: Failover Routing
• Using Route 53 to create highly available • Amazon Route 53: Geolocation Routing
environments
Knowledge checks
• Applying AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles to highly available systems • 10-question knowledge check
• Sample exam question
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also view the demonstrations listed to highlight the services and features discussed in this module.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question to discuss in class.
The next slide describes the labs in this module.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab Challenge (Café) lab
• Creating a Highly Available • Creating a Scalable and Highly
Environment Available Environment for the
Café
This module includes the hands-on labs listed. There is a guided lab where you will be provided step-by-step
instructions and a café (challenge) lab where you will work on updating the architecture for the café. Additional
information about each lab is included in the student guide where the lab takes place, and the lab environment
provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to design workload monitoring
building across distributed components to provide
architectures that a complete picture of workload
perform as needed: performance.
• I need to understand how to automate
the scaling of cloud compute and
database resources to ensure high
availability for my workloads.
• I need to design workload failover
mechanisms by using load balancers and
network routing to ensure high
availability in case of failures.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module, remembering that the
cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example
business need and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Monitoring your resources
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to monitor resources in AWS.
=== Page 11 ===
Monitoring distributed application components
Operational health Resource utilization Application performance
A responsive system or application means that distributed components respond in a timely manner even under
a heavy load. To meet this requirement, special attention must be paid to latency.
A good example of this would be synchronous, distributed application services that have to respond within a
certain time period. This means that when something goes wrong, you need a low-latency error-handling
mechanism to report the problem so that remedial action can be taken. A distributed application that passes
messages between services for communication is also hard to debug. This is because it is not always possible to
reproduce the exact state of the complete application and replay events to reproduce issues.
The solution is for each separate log file for each service to be consolidated in a central service that will provide
a complete log of the whole application. The consolidation service can then aggregate the metrics from the
logs. Alarms can also be set for metric thresholds that have been exceeded.
Metrics that can be monitored for an application include operational health metrics, resource utilization
metrics, and application performance metrics. Operational health metrics monitor the application infrastructure
to ensure that the runtime environment is running well. Resource utilization metrics measure the use of the
application components and make sure that the components are not being over-or underutilized. Application
performance metrics measure if the application demand is being met.
=== Page 12 ===
CloudWatch
• Collects and tracks metrics for AWS services across
Regions in a metric repository
• Collects logs by using Amazon CloudWatch Logs
• Supports built-in AWS service metrics or custom
metrics
• Calculates statistics from metrics and anddisplays
graphs of the metric statistics
CloudWatch • Provides alarms for responsive event-driven
architectures
• Provides notifications to make changes to monitored
resources
Amazon CloudWatch is an AWS service metrics and logs repository. You can use Amazon CloudWatch Logs to
monitor, store, and access your log files from Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances, AWS
CloudTrail, Amazon Route53, and other AWS services.
An AWS service such as Amazon EC2 puts metrics into the repository, and you retrieve statistics based on those
metrics. If you put your own custom metrics into the repository, you can also retrieve statistics on these
metrics. Statisticsare metric data aggregations over specified periods of time. Metrics are stored separately in
Regions, but you can use CloudWatch cross-Region functionality to aggregate statistics from different Regions.
You can use a CloudWatch console dashboard to display graphs of the metric statistics.
You can use analarmto automatically initiate actions on your behalf. An alarm watches a single metric over a
specified time period and performs one or more specified actions based on the value of the metric relative to a
threshold over time. You can also add alarms to dashboards.
CloudWatch also supports data querying from multiple sources, giving you the ability to gain visibility across
your hybrid and multicloud metrics in a single dashboard view and set alarms accordingly.
=== Page 13 ===
CloudWatch metric and log collection
AWS resources have the capability to send operational logs to CloudWatch Logs. You can use CloudWatch Logs
to monitor, store, and access your log files from sources such as EC2 instances, AWS CloudTrail, Route 53,
Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC), and other AWS services. CloudWatch Logs gives you the ability to
centralize the logs from all of the systems, applications, and AWS services that you use in a single, highly
scalable service. You can then view logs, search them for specific error codes or patterns, filter them based on
specific fields, or archive them securely for future analysis. With CloudWatch Logs, you can see all of your logs,
regardless of their source, as a single and consistent flow of events ordered by time. CloudWatch Logs also
supports querying your logs with a powerful query language, auditing and masking sensitive data in logs, and
generating metrics from logs by using filters or an embedded log format. You can send custom data from other
sources to CloudWatch Logs and the metric repository.
The metrics are stored in the metrics repository in a namespace container. Metrics in different namespaces are
isolated from each other so that metrics from different applications are not mistakenly aggregated into the
same statistics. The AWS namespaces typically use the following naming convention:AWS/service. For example,
Amazon EC2 uses theAWS/EC2namespace.
A metric is a time-ordered set of data points with a unit of measurement such as bytes, seconds, count, and
percentage. You can think of a metric as a variable to monitor, and the data points as representing the values of
that variable over time. For example, the percent CPU usage of a particular EC2 instance is one metric that
Amazon EC2 provides. You would be able to see the value of CPU usage over time for each data point
timestamp. A metric can be either standard resolution or high resolution. Standard resolution means data
points have 1-minute granularity. High resolution means that data points have 1-second granularity.
You can optionally configure a metric dimension. A dimension is a name and value pair specifying a metric
characteristic. For example, many Amazon EC2 metrics publishInstanceIdas a dimension name, and the actual
instance ID as the value for that dimension. This ID dimension can be used to filter the metrics when searching
for a specific instance metrics.
=== Page 14 ===
CloudWatch alarms
You can use a CloudWatchalarmto automatically initiate actions on your behalf. An alarm watches a single
metric over a specified time period and performs one or more specified actions based on the value of the
metric relative to a threshold over time. The action is a notification sent to an Amazon Simple Notification
Service (Amazon SNS)topic or an Auto Scaling policy. You can also add alarms to dashboards.
Alarms invoke actions for sustained state changes only. CloudWatch alarms do not invoke actions because they
are in a particular state. The state must have changed and been maintained for a specified number of periods.
For example, an alarm is activated when the CPUUtilization metricis greater than 70 percent for 5 minutes. The
alarm invokes an action, such as adding an instance to the Auto Scaling policy or sending a notification to the
development team.
When you create an alarm to monitor a specific metric, you are asking CloudWatch to compare that metric to
the threshold value that you specified. You have extensive control over how CloudWatch makes that
comparison. Not only can you specify the period over which the comparison is made, but you can also specify
how many evaluation periods are used to arrive at a conclusion. For example, if you specify three evaluation
periods, CloudWatch compares a window of three data points. CloudWatch notifies you only if the oldest data
point is breaching and the others are breaching or missing.
If you set an alarm on a high-resolution metric, you can specify a high-resolution alarm with a period of 10
seconds or 30 seconds, or you can set a regular alarm with a period of any multiple of 60 seconds. There is a
higher charge for high-resolution alarms. You can set regular alarms for standard resolution metrics.
=== Page 15 ===
CloudWatch dashboards
While having metrics and alarms are good, you sometimes would like to compare metrics or view alarms that
could be located in different Regions. You can use CloudWatch dashboards to create customized dashboards or
view automatic dashboards. These dashboards are customizable home pages in the CloudWatch console that
you can use to monitor your resources in a single view, even those resources that are spread across different
Regions. You can use CloudWatch dashboards to create customized views of the metrics and alarms for your
AWS resources.
A metric that breaks a threshold every second should not be acted on every second. For that reason, metrics
should be aggregated over time so that one action can solve the problem. CloudWatch provides statistics based
on the metric data points. Statisticsare metric data aggregations over specified periods of time. CloudWatch
provides statistics based on the metric data points provided by your custom data or provided by other AWS
services to CloudWatch. You can specify a specific time period, and CloudWatch will calculate the aggregations
by using the namespace, metric name, dimensions, and the data point unit of measure.
With dashboards, you can create a single view for selected metrics and alarms to help you assess the health of
your resources and applications across one or more Regions. You can select the color used for each metric on
each graph so that you can track the same metric across multiple graphs. You can create an operational
playbook that provides guidance for team members during operational events about how to respond to specific
incidents. You can create a common view of critical resource and application measurements that team
members can share for faster communication flow during operational events.
If you do not want to use the AWS Management Console, you can query CloudWatch statistics to import the
data into a custom dashboard.
=== Page 16 ===
EventBridge
• Processes events with an event bus or a pipe
• Pipes are point-to-point integrations between one source
and one target.
• Event buses are routers that receive events and
optionally delivers them to one or multiple targets.
• Makes routing decisions with configurable rules
EventBridge • Rules run based on matching an event pattern or on a
schedule with Amazon EventBridge Scheduler.
• Targets can be in another AWS account, in another
Region, or in both.
When CloudWatch alarms are breached, the event needs to be published so that automated or manual
correction actions can be implemented. In AWS, Amazon EventBridge is an event bus used to route events.
EventBridge is a serverless service that uses events to connect application components together, helping you to
build scalable event-driven applications. Event-driven architecture is a style of building loosely coupled software
systems that work together by emitting and responding to events.
EventBridge uses event busesandpipes to process events. Event busesare routers that receiveeventsand
deliver them to zero or more targets. Amazon EventBridge Pipes is intended for point-to-point integrations. Each
pipe receives events from a single source for processing and delivery to a single target. Pipes also include
support for advanced transformations and enrichment of events prior to delivery to a target.
Event buses use rules to match incomingeventsand send them totargetsfor processing. A single rule can send
an event to multiple targets, which then run in parallel. Rules are based either on an event patternor a
schedule. Anevent patterndefines the event structure and the fields that a rule matches. Rules that are based
on a schedule perform an action at regular intervals.
For more information, see “What Is Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling?” on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 17 ===
EventBridge event bus
An event bus is a router that receiveseventsand delivers them to zero or more destinations, ortargets. Use an
event bus when you need to route events from many sources to many targets with optional transformation of
events prior to delivery to a target.
A common use case for event buses is as a broker between different workloads, services, or systems. You can
use multiple event buses in your applications to divide the event traffic: for example, creating a bus to process
events containing personally identifiable information (PII) and creating another bus for events that don’t. You
can use event buses to aggregate events by sending events from multiple event buses to a centralized event
bus. This centralized bus can be in the same account as the other buses but can also be in a different account or
Region.
A rule receives incoming events and sends them as appropriate to targets for processing. You can specify how
each rule invokes its target or targets based on an event pattern or a schedule. An event pattern contains one or
more filters to match events. A schedule will invoke a target or targets at regular intervals. EventBridge offers
Amazon EventBridge Scheduler, a serverless scheduler that you can use to create, run, and manage tasks from
one central, managed service.
Atargetis a resource or endpoint that EventBridge sends aneventto when the event matches the event
pattern defined for arule.The rule processes theeventdata and sends the pertinent information to the target.
You can define up to five targets for each rule. EventBridge supports multiple AWS services and API destinations.
In the example on this slide, EventBridge Scheduler sends Event 1 to the default event bus, which invokes Rule
1. Rule 1 matches the event successfully and routes the event to an SNS topic. An AWS service sends Event 2 to
the default event bus, which invokes Rule 2 and Rule 3 in parallel. Rule 2 passes and sends the event to
CloudWatch Logs while Rule 3 also passes and sends the event to an AWS Lambda function.
=== Page 18 ===
The following is an example of an event pattern that processes all EC2instance-terminationevents:
"source": ["aws.ec2"],
"detail-type": ["EC2 Instance State-change Notification"],
"detail": {
"state": ["terminated"]
=== Page 19 ===
Monitoring your resource costs
AWS Cost Explorer AWS Budgets AWS Cost and Usage Report
Monitoring can also help you to understand and manage the cost of your AWS infrastructure. AWS provides
monitoring and reporting tools, including the following:
• AWS Cost Explorerhelps you visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage with daily or
monthly granularity. You can use it to view data up to the last 13 months, which helps you see patterns in
how you spend AWS resources over time.
• AWS Budgetshelps you set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceeds (or are
forecasted to exceed) your budgeted amount.
• AWS Cost and Usage Reportcontains the most comprehensive set of AWS cost and usage data available,
including additional metadata about AWS services, pricing, and reservations.
=== Page 20 ===
Key takeaways: • CloudWatch alarms can send notifications
to Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling and SNS
Monitoring your
topics.
resources
• CloudWatch collects logs and metrics
from AWS services across Regions.
• You can use CloudWatch dashboards to
visualize metrics and alarms.
• EventBridge processes and routes event
with an event bus or a pipe.
• AWS Cost Explorer, AWS Budgets, and
AWS Cost and Usage Report can help you
understand and manage the cost of your
AWS infrastructure.
=== Page 21 ===
Scaling your compute resources
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to scale your compute resources in a virtual private cloud (VPC).
=== Page 22 ===
The need for reactive architectures
Applications need to handle large amounts of data with sub-second
response times while having close to 100 percent uptime.
So far, you have learned about application components, environments, and ways to secure access to
applications. When designing an application, you must also ensure that it will run optimally under various
conditions and will not need manual intervention to recover from failures.
Many modern applications are expected to handle petabytes of data, require close to 100 percent uptime, and
deliver sub-second response time to users. A growing number of enterprises have adopted reactive
architectures and reactive systems because it is necessary to design applications in a highly scalable and
responsive way. To meet these requirements, you can implement a reactive application that is elastic, resilient,
responsive, and message-driven.
Elastic scaling is a mechanism to scale an application’s resources dynamically. This type of scaling will add or
remove resources to react to changes and avoid downtime or traffic bottlenecks.
Responsive means that applications should respond in a timely manner with the lowest latency possible. A
reactive application remains responsive under varying workloads.
A resilient application stays responsive in the face of failure. A resilient application has the capability to recover
when stressed by load, attacks, and failure of any component in the workload's components.
Being message-driven is perhaps the most important characteristic of reactive systems. To establish boundaries
between services, reactive applications rely on asynchronous message-passing to help ensure loose coupling,
isolation, and location transparency. Location transparency is the access of data without the explicit knowledge
of the data location.
=== Page 23 ===
Achieve elasticity with scaling
Elasticity is the ability of Scaling is the ability to increase
infrastructure to expand and or decrease the compute capacity
contract as capacity of your application.
requirements change.
• Vertical scaling replaces a
resource with a different-sized
resource.
• Horizontal scaling adds or
removes resources available to
the application.
One characteristic of a reactive architecture is elasticity. Elasticitymeans that the infrastructure can expand and
contract when capacity requirements change. You can acquire resources when you need them and release
resources when you do not. For example, you can increase the number of web servers when traffic to your
application spikes or lower the write capacity on your database when traffic goes down.
Scaling is the ability to increase or decrease the compute capacity of your application. Scalingis a technique
that is used to achieve elasticity.
Vertical scaling is where you increase or decrease the specifications of an individual resource. For example, you
could upgrade to a new server with a larger hard drive or a faster CPU. Typically the application and data has to
be transferred to a new resource, which can lead to application downtime. For example, with Amazon EC2, you
can stop an instance and resize it to an instance type that has more RAM, CPU, I/O, or networking capabilities.
AWS will transfer the instance data to the new instance for you. Vertical scaling can eventually reach a limit
because it is hardware bound, and it is not always a cost-efficient or a highly available approach.
Horizontal scaling is where you add or remove resources available to the application. For example, you might
need to add more hard drives to a storage array or add more servers to support an application. Adding
resources is referred to as scaling out, and ending resources is referred to as scaling in.Horizontal scaling is a
good way to build internet-scale applications that take advantage of the elasticity of cloud computing.
Applications, data, or both areautomatically transferred to added resources.
=== Page 24 ===
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
• Manages a logical collection of Amazon Elastic Compute
Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances called an Amazon EC2 Auto
Scaling group across Availability Zones
• Launches or retires EC2 instances configured by launch
templates
• Resizes based on events from scaling policies, load balancer
health check notifications, or schedule actions
• Integrates with Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) to send new
Amazon EC2 Auto
instances registrations and receive health notifications
Scaling
• Balances the number of instances across Availability Zones
• Is available free of charge
In the cloud, scaling can be handled automatically. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling does this by grouping EC2
instances in a management group called an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group. The group can span across
Availability Zones. An Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group canautomatically add or remove EC2 instances according
to user-defined scaling policies, schedule actions, and Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) health checks. When a new
EC2 instance is added to the group, a launch template or launch configuration that specifies the instance
configuration is used.
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling integrates with ELB. It automatically registers new instances with load balancers to
distribute incoming traffic across the instances in the group. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can receive notifications
of an unhealthy instance to remove from the group. The group can also balance the number of instances across
Availability Zones so that the number of instances is similar for each Availability Zone.
With Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling, your applications gain the following benefits:
• Better fault tolerance: Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can detect when an instance is unhealthy, terminate it, and
launch an instance to replace it. You can also configure Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to use multiple Availability
Zones. If one Availability Zone becomes unavailable, Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can launch instances in
another one to compensate.
• Better availability: Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling helps ensure that your application always has the right amount
of capacity to handle the current traffic demand.
• Better cost management: Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can dynamically increase and decrease capacity as
needed. Because you pay for the EC2 instances you use, you save money by launching instances when they
are needed and terminating them when they aren’t.
For more information, see the AWS Well-Architected Framework on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 25 ===
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group components
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling uses Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling groups to manage a collection of EC2 instances. The
number of instances in the group is determined by the capacity settings. Minimum capacity is the smallest
number of instances needed to run the application, and maximum capacity is the largest number of instances
permitted for the group. Desired capacity is the optimal number of instances needed to run the application
under normal circumstances. When demand or environment changes, then desired capacity is adjusted.
You can adjust the group size to meet demand, either manually or by using automatic scaling. In both cases, you
cannot exceed the group capacity minimum or maximum settings. With manual scaling, you specify a new value
for the maximum, minimum, or desired capacity of the group.
Scaling starts with an event, or scaling action, which instructs an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group to either
launch or end EC2 instances. To launch an EC2 instance, the group needs to know which type of EC2 instances
to initiate. The group launch template is used to specify the EC2 instance configuration details, such as the
instance type and the Amazon Machine Image (AMI) ID. You can also specify what percentage of the desired
capacity should be fulfilled with On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances. Amazon EC2
Auto Scaling then provisions the lowest price combination of instances to meet the desired capacity based on
these preferences. On-Demand and Reserved Instances are immediately available, but Spot Instances might or
might not be available at a specific time.A launch template can be versioned.
Usually, an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group works with a load balancer to assist with scaling. The group can opt
to receive load balancer instance health check notifications in addition to the group’s own instance health
checks. The group can register new instances with the load balancer.
A new Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group has no scaling mechanisms. You can add scaling mechanisms, such as
schedule actions, dynamic scaling policies, and a predictive scaling policy.
=== Page 26 ===
Horizontal scaling with Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling groups
Group desired capacity = 2, maximum capacity = 3, minimum capacity = 1
The desired capacity Scale out to reach a maximum Scale in to reach a minimum
is two instances. capacity of three instances. capacity of one instance.
In the example on this slide, automatic scaling is used. The group starts by launching enough instances to meet
its desired capacity, which is two instances: instances 1 and 2. If an unhealthy instance is reported by the load
balancer, the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group will end the unhealthy instance and replace it with a new
instance.
You can use scaling policies to increase the number of instances in your group dynamically to meet changing
conditions. In the example on this slide, the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group tracks a metric from an AWS
service such as CloudWatch or Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) to scale out. By using a launch
template, the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group scales out by adding instance 3 to the group to reach the
maximum capacity of three instances. The Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group will make sure that the maximum
capacity will not be exceeded even if another scaling out notification is received.
Likewise, you can use scaling policies to decrease the number of instances in your Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
group. In the example on this slide, a scheduled scaling policy activates to reduce the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling
group capacity to the minimum number of instances in off-peak hours. The Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group
scales in by ending instances 1 and 2 to reach a minimum capacity of one instance with instance 3 running.
=== Page 27 ===
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling mechanisms
Scheduled actions Dynamic policies Predictive policy
• Scale based on a date • Scale based on tracked • Scales based on
and time metrics previous traffic patterns
• Are for predictable • Are for moderately with machine learning
workloads spiky workloads • Is for workload traffic
that can be predicted
with a pattern
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling policies provide several ways to adjust scaling to best meet the compute
requirements of your applications.
With scheduled scaling, scaling actions are performed automatically as a function of a date and time. This
feature is useful for predictable workloads when you know exactly when to increase or decrease the number of
instances in your group. For example, suppose that every week, the traffic to your web application starts to
increase on Wednesday, remains high on Thursday, and starts to decrease on Friday. You can plan your scaling
actions based on the predictable traffic patterns of your web application. To implement scheduled scaling, you
create a schedule action.
Dynamic, on-demand scalingis a more advanced way to scale your resources. You can use it to define
parameters that control the scaling process. For example, you have a web application that currently runs on two
EC2 instances. You want the CPU utilization of the Auto Scaling group to stay close to 50 percent when the load
on the application changes. This option is useful for scaling in response to changing conditions, when you don't
know when those conditions are going to change. Dynamic scaling gives you extra capacity to handle traffic
spikes without maintaining an excessive number of idle resources.
You can configure your Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group to scale dynamically with different scaling policy types.
Target tracking scaling policies increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a target value
for a specific metric. This type of scaling is similar to the way that your thermostat maintains the temperature of
your home: you select a temperature, and the thermostat does the rest. With target tracking scaling policies,
you select a scaling metric and set a target value. Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling creates and manages the
CloudWatch alarms that invokes the scaling policy and calculates the scaling adjustment based on the metric
and the target value. For example, you can create a target tracking scaling policy that targets an average CPU
utilization of 50 percent. Then, your Auto Scaling group scales the number of instances to keep the actual metric
value at or near 50 percent.
=== Page 28 ===
With step scaling and simple scaling policies, you choose scaling metrics and threshold values for the
CloudWatch alarms that invoke the scaling process. Simple scaling will wait for scaling to finish when
an alarm is reported ignoring subsequent alarms. Step scaling will adjust the scaling to match the
size of the alarm breach.
You can use Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to implement a predictive scaling policy where your capacity
scales based on predicted demand. Predictive scaling works by analyzing historical load data to
detect daily or weekly patterns in traffic flows. It uses this information to forecast future capacity
needs so that Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling can proactively increase the capacity of your Auto Scaling
group to match the anticipated load. Predictive scaling is well suited for situations where you have
the following:
• Cyclical traffic, such as high use of resources during regular business hours and low use of
resources during evenings and weekends
• Recurring on-and-off workload patterns, such as batch processing, testing, or periodic data
analysis
• Applications that take a long time to initialize, causing a noticeable latency impact on application
performance during scale-out events
You can use dynamic scaling and predictive scaling together to optimally scale your infrastructure.
=== Page 29 ===
Scaling with a step scaling policy
Metric value Less than 30% 30–39% 40–60% 61–70% 71–100%
Percentage
capacity -30% -10% No change +10% +30%
change
Remove 30% Remove 10% Add 10% of Add 30% of
of current of current current current
capacity capacity capacity capacity
Step scaling policies increase or decrease the current capacity of a scalable target based on a set of scaling
adjustments, known asstep adjustments. The adjustments vary based on the size of the alarm breach. The
policy continues to respond to additional alarms while a scaling activity is in progress. Therefore, all alarms that
are breached are evaluated by AWS Application Auto Scaling as it receives the alarm messages.
When you create a step scaling policy, you specify one or more step adjustments that automatically scale the
capacity of the target dynamically based on the size of the alarm breach. Each step adjustment specifies a lower
bound for the metric value, an upper bound for the metric value, and the amount by which to scale based on
the scaling adjustment type.
CloudWatch aggregates metric data points based on the statistic for the metric associated with your
CloudWatch alarm. When the alarm is breached, the appropriate scaling policy is activated.
For a complete example of step scaling, please see “Overview of Step Scaling Policies” on the content resources
page of your online course.
=== Page 30 ===
More AWS scaling options
AWS Auto Scaling AWS Application Auto Scaling
• Use ascaling planto configure auto • Scale multiple resources with target
scaling for multiple resources. tracking, step scaling, or scheduled
scaling.
• Scale multiple AWS services:
• Scale multiple AWS services:
• Amazon Aurora
• Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling • AWS Auto Scaling services
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon • AWS Lambda functions
ECS) • Amazon SageMaker
• Amazon DynamoDB • Amazon ElastiCache for Redis
When you want to scale, AWS Auto Scaling uses ascaling planto configure auto scaling for related or associated
scalable resources in a matter of minutes. For example, you can use tags to group resources in categories such
as production, testing, or development. Then, you can search for and set up scaling plans for scalable resources
that belong to each category.
AWS Auto Scaling supports the use of scaling plans for the following services and resources:
• Amazon Aurora: Increase or decrease the number of Aurora read replicas that are provisioned for an Aurora
DB cluster.
• Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling: Launch or terminate EC2 instances by increasing or decreasing the desired
capacity of an Auto Scaling group.
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS):Increase or decrease the desired task count in Amazon ECS.
• Amazon DynamoDB: Increase or decrease the provisioned read and write capacity of a DynamoDB table or a
global secondary index.
Application Auto Scaling is a web service for developers and system administrators who need a solution for
automatically scaling their scalable resources for individual AWS services beyond Amazon EC2. Application Auto
Scaling is similar to Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling groups in that you can use Application Auto Scaling to
automatically scale with target tracking, step, and scheduled scaling policies. It supports AWS Auto Scaling
services.
=== Page 31 ===
Demo: Creating • This demonstration uses Amazon EC2
Scaling Policies for Auto Scaling.
Amazon EC2 Auto
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
Scaling
do the following:
• Create and launch an EC2 instance.
• Create an Auto Scaling group.
• Create a scaling policy.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 32 ===
Key takeaways: • With Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling, you can
Scaling your create a group to manage a logical
collection of EC2 instances, called an
compute resources
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group.
• A group has capacity settings that specify
the minimum, maximum, and desired
number of instances required to run an
application.
• Group size can be scaled in and out with
schedule actions, dynamic policies, and
predictive policies.
• To scale more services than EC2 instances,
use AWS Auto Scaling or Application Auto
Scaling.
=== Page 33 ===
Scaling your databases
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to scale databases in AWS.
=== Page 34 ===
Scaling AWS databases
Amazon Aurora
Aurora Amazon RDS DynamoDB
Serverless
Scale a cluster Scale a cluster Scale a database Scale a table
• Vertical scaling with • Horizontal • Vertical scaling • Horizontal scaling
instance types compute scaling with instance types to scale read
• Horizontal scaling with Aurora and storage capacity units
with read replicas Compute Units volume size and (RCUs) and write
(ACUs) type capacity units
• Service managed
storage scaling • Service managed • Horizontal scaling (WCUs) separately
storage scaling with read replicas • Service managed
storage scaling
Similarly to Amazon EC2 compute resources, AWS database services can also scale vertically, horizontally, or
both. How scaling is handled is different for each service. Some services offer manual scaling and auto scaling
while other services offer only auto scaling for certain components. Scaling a database is never an
instantaneous exercise, although it might appear so because most of the scaling happens as background
processes.
Aurora can vertically scale a cluster to increase storage as your data in the cluster increases. You can also
vertically scale an Aurora cluster by changing the EC2 instance size in the cluster. You can specify up to 15
Aurora Replicas to implement horizontal scaling as read-only clusters.
Amazon Aurora Serverless clusters operate on throughput capacity by using horizontal scaling. You specify
capacity by configuring the minimum and maximum Aurora Compute Units (ACUs) to manage memory and
compute. Aurora Serverless scales the database resources automatically based on the capacity specifications
and will not drop below the minimum or exceed the maximum capacity. AWS handles Aurora Serverless storage
capacity.
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) can vertically scale database storage if you resize the EC2
instance type. You can horizontally scale an Amazon RDS database by adding read replicas. A read replica is read
only and cannot be promoted to a primary database like a secondary or standby database can.
DynamoDB tables operate on throughput capacity. Each table can have a maximum provisioned throughput
read and write capacity expressed as read capacity units (RCUs) and write capacity units (WCUs). To activate
scaling, you can change to on-demand scaling by setting the minimum and maximum RCUs and WCUs with a
scaling metric.
=== Page 35 ===
Scaling an Aurora cluster
Scale vertically by
changing the Scale horizontally
Aurora DB by using Aurora
instance class or Auto Scaling to
size. manage the
number of read
replicas.
Image description:An Aurora database cluster showing a primary instance in Availability Zone 1 and one replica
instance in both Availability Zones 2 and 3. Each instance connects to a set of Amazon Elastic Block Store
(Amazon EBS)volumes in the same Availability Zone. The primary instance copies its database to its EBS
volumes, and those are copied to EBS volumes for each of the database replicas. The EBS volumes are in the
Aurora Cluster volume, which spans across all three Availability Zones. End description.
One way to scale an Aurora cluster to meet increased workload requirements is to use Aurora Auto Scaling.
Aurora Auto Scaling dynamically adjusts the number of Aurora Replicas (reader DB instances) provisioned for an
Aurora DB cluster. Aurora Auto Scaling helps your Aurora DB cluster handle sudden increases in connectivity or
workload. When the connectivity or workload decreases, Aurora Auto Scaling removes unnecessary Aurora
Replicas so that you don't pay for unused provisioned DB instances.
You define and apply a scaling policy to an Aurora DB cluster. Thescaling policydefines the minimum and
maximum number of Aurora Replicas that Aurora Auto Scaling can manage. Based on the policy, Aurora Auto
Scaling adjusts the number of Aurora Replicas up or down in response to actual workloads as determined by
using CloudWatch metrics and target values.
Another way to scale an Aurora cluster is by changing the Aurora DB instance class to resize the cluster compute
capacity. The DB instance class determines the computation and memory capacity of an Aurora DB instance.
The DB instance class that you need depends on your processing power and memory requirements.
Scaling isn't instantaneous. It can take 15 minutes or more to complete the change to a different DB instance
class. You can apply the change during the next scheduled maintenance window rather than immediately to
avoid affecting users. As an alternative to modifying the DB instance class directly, you can minimize downtime
by using the high availability features of Aurora. First, add an Aurora Replica to your cluster. When creating the
replica, choose the DB instance class size that you want to use for your cluster. When the Aurora Replica is
synchronized with the cluster, you then failover to the newly added Replica.
The Aurora service automatically manages Aurora storage scaling in the cluster volume.
=== Page 36 ===
Scaling an Aurora Serverless cluster
Implement Aurora
Automated horizontal
scaling by specifying the
minimum and maximum
cluster Aurora Capacity
Units (ACUs).
Each Reader and Writer
scales between a
minimum and
maximum cluster ACUs.
Start and stop a cluster
for intermittent
workloads.
Workloads can be intermittent and unpredictable. There can be periods of heavy workloads that might last only
a few minutes or hours, and also long periods of light activity, or even no activity. Some examples are retail
websites with intermittent sales events, reporting databases that produce reports when needed, development
and testing environments, and new applications with uncertain requirements. In these cases, and many others,
it can be difficult to configure the correct capacity at the right time. It can also result in higher costs when you
pay for capacity that isn't used.
Aurora Serverless is an on-demand, automatically scaling configuration for Amazon Aurora clusters. Aurora
Serverless enables your database to automatically start up, shut down, and scale capacity up or down based on
your application's needs. It enables you to run your database in the cloud without managing any database
instances. Aurora Serverless can be used for infrequent, intermittent, or unpredictable workloads.
With Aurora Serverless you create a database endpoint without specifying the DB instance class size. You
specify database capacity with minimum and maximum Aurora capacity units (ACUs). Each ACU is a
combination of approximately 2 gibibytes (GiB) of memory, corresponding CPU, and networking. You specify the
database capacity range using this unit of measure. Aurora Serverless scales the resources vertically
automatically based on the minimum and maximum capacity specifications.
In the above example, the Amazon Aurora AuroraMulti-AZ database cluster has an 10 ACU capacity writer
configured in Availability Zone 1. One 2 ACU capacity reader is configured in each availability zone. Data storage
is provided by the cluster volume on EBS volumes.
Database storage automatically scales in the same way as storage in a standard Aurora DB cluster.
You pay on a per-second basis for the database capacity that you use when the database is active, and you can
migrate between standard and serverless configurations. You pay for the number of ACUs used. You can stop
and start a cluster for intermittent workloads.
=== Page 37 ===
Scaling an Amazon RDS database
Scale
Scale vertically horizontally
by changing the by adding
DB instance class read replica
or size. databases.
Scale vertically by manually changing the EBS
volume type and size or by using Amazon RDS
storage auto scaling.
Image description: Diagram of an Amazon RDS primary instance connected to an EBS volume. An arrow
denotes asynchronous data replication to an Amazon RDS read replica that has its own EBS volume. End
description.
As a managed service, Amazon RDSscales your relational database so that it can keep up with the increasing
demands of your application. Vertical scaling is the most straightforward approach to adding more capacity in
your database.
You can vertically scale your Amazon RDS database (DB) instance by changing the Amazon RDS instance class. If
you decide to scale up or down the compute resources that are available to your DB instance, be aware that
your database is temporarily unavailable while the DB instance class is modified. It occurs during the
maintenance window for your DB instance unless you specify that the modification should be applied
immediately. There is minimal downtime when you’re scaling up your Amazon RDS instance on a Multi-AZ
environment because the standby database gets upgraded first, and then a failover occurs to the newly sized
database. A Single-AZ Amazon RDS instance is unavailable during the scaling operation. Vertical scaling is
suitable if you can’t change your application and database connectivity configuration.
When you scale your database instance up or down, your storage size remains the same and is not affected by
the change. You can separately modify your DB instance to increase the allocated storage space or improve the
performance by changing the storage type—for example, from General Purpose SSD to Provisioned IOPS SSD.
Instead of manually provisioning storage, you can also use Amazon RDS storage autoscaling to automatically
scale storage capacity in response to growing database workloads.
In addition to vertical scaling, you can scale your database horizontally. Amazon RDS uses the built-in replication
functionality of the MariaDB, MySQL, Oracle, and PostgreSQL DB engines to create a special type of DB instance
called a read replica from a source DB instance. Updates that are made to the source DB instance are
asynchronously copied to the read replica. You can reduce the load on your source DB instance by routing read
queries from your applications to the read replica.
=== Page 38 ===
Redirecting read traffic for business reporting and reading queries from applications are examples
where read replicas are used. Another use case is for disaster recovery. You can promote the read
replica to the primary database if it becomes unavailable. However, it’s important to note that read
replicas are not a replacement for the high availability and automatic failover capabilities that Multi-
AZ provides.
=== Page 39 ===
Scaling a DynamoDB table
Use on-demand
capacity mode to
activate to let
DynamoDB scale
the table based
on actual reads
and write.
Reduce the load
on the base table
with a global
secondary index
table.
When you create a new table in DynamoDB, you must specify the table capacity mode by choosing provisioned
mode or on-demand mode.
When you choose on-demand mode, DynamoDB accommodates your workloads based on actual reads and
writes to the table. If a workload’s traffic level hits a new peak, DynamoDB adapts rapidly to accommodate the
workload. This works well for spiky or intermittent workloads.
When you choose provisioned mode, you set the amount of read and write activity that the table can support
measured in RCUs and WCUs. DynamoDB uses this information to reserve sufficient system resources to meet
your throughput requirements. This works well for applications with consistent and predictable throughput. By
default, the DynamoDB table in provisioned mode activates read capacity and write capacity auto scaling.
DynamoDB auto scaling uses the Application Auto Scaling service to dynamically adjust provisioned throughput
capacity on your behalf in response to actual traffic patterns. This enables a table or a global secondary index to
increase its provisioned read and write capacity to handle sudden increases in traffic without throttling. When
the workload decreases, Application Auto Scaling decreases the throughput so that you don't pay for unused
provisioned capacity. If auto scaling is not required on a table, you can deactivate it.
In addition to tables, DynamoDB auto scaling also supports global secondary indexes. Every global secondary
index has its own provisioned throughput capacity that is separate from that of its base table. When you create
a scaling policy for a global secondary index, Application Auto Scaling adjusts the provisioned throughput
settings for the index to ensure that its actual utilization stays at or near your desired utilization ratio.
The DynamoDB service automatically manages DynamoDB storage scaling.
=== Page 40 ===
Comparing AWS database scaling mechanisms
Scaling Aurora Aurora Serverless Amazon RDS DynamoDB
Scope Cluster Cluster Database Table
• Instance class
Cluster ACU throughput
or size
Vertical Instance class limits with each Reader
• Amazon RDS N/A
scaling or size and Writer automatically
storage auto
scaled within limits
scaling
• On-demand mode
Aurora Auto
Horizontal • Multi-AZ replicas Read replica • Provisioned mode with
Scaling for
scaling • Reader replicas databases Application Auto Scaling
read replicas
• Global secondary indexes
Managed
Storage
by AWS Storage scaling N/A Storage scaling
scaling
service
The table provides a summary of this section.
=== Page 41 ===
Key takeaways: • With Aurora, you can choose the database
instance class size and number of Aurora
Scaling your
Replicas.
databases • Aurora Serverlessscales resources
automatically based on the minimum and
maximum capacity specifications.
• You can manually vertically scale compute
capacity for your RDS DB instance.
• You can use read replicasto horizontally
scale your RDS DB instance.
• DynamoDB On-Demandoffers a pricing
model based on actual table reads and
writes.
• DynamoDB auto scalinguses Application
Auto Scaling to dynamically adjust
provisioned throughput capacity.
=== Page 42 ===
Using load balancers to create highly
available environments
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to use AWS load balancers to create highly available environments.
=== Page 43 ===
Highly available systems
Maximum downtime per Equivalent downtime per
Percentage of uptime
year day
90% 36.5 days 2.4 hours
99% 3.65 days 14 minutes
99.9% 8.76 hours 86 seconds
99.99% 52.6 minutes 8.6 seconds
99.999% 5.25 minutes 0.86 seconds
When you design and build production-scale solutions, you should avoid single points of failure. For example,
having one database and one application instance will cause application failure if either the database or
instance fails. It is prudent to have backup plans for one instance failure, Availability Zone failure, and Regional
failure scenarios. One way to mitigate single points of failure is to design your architecture to be highly
available.
A highly available system is one that can withstand some measure of degradation while remaining available.
Downtime is minimized as much as possible, and minimal human intervention is required to bring the system
back to normal operating levels. A highly available system enables resiliency in a reactive architecture. A
resilient workload can automatically recover when it’s stressed by load (more requests for service), attacks, or
component failure. A resilient workload recovers from a failure, or it rolls over to a secondary source within an
acceptable amount of degraded performance time.
=== Page 44 ===
ELB
• Distributes traffic across multiple targets in one or
more Availability Zone
• Can receive public or private traffic
• Monitors the health of registered targets with
health checks
• Routes traffic to only healthy targets
ELB
• Scales based on incoming traffic
ELB solves the single point of failure problem for AWS services such as EC2 instances and containers. Itis a key
component of creating a highly available architecture.
A load balancer automatically distributes your incoming traffic across multiple targets in one or more
Availability Zones. Load balancers can be external facing and distribute inbound public traffic. They can also be
internal facing and distribute private traffic.
ELB monitors the health of its registered targets and routes traffic to only healthy targets. To discover the
availability of your EC2 instances, the load balancer periodically sends pings, attempts connections, or sends
requests to test the EC2 instances. These tests are called health checks. Each registered EC2 instance must
respond to the target of the health check with an HTTP status code of 200 to be considered healthy by your
load balancer. If an instance fails a health check, a notification is sent to the Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group to
replace the instance with a healthy instance.
ELB supports four types of load balancers: Application Load Balancers, Network Load Balancers, Gateway Load
Balancers, and Classic Load Balancers. Each load balancer receives a default DNS name. The ELB service scales
your load balancer as your incoming traffic changes over time.
=== Page 45 ===
Types of AWS load balancers
Application Load Network Load Gateway Load Classic Load
Balancer Balancer Balancer Balancer
• Is used for HTTP and • Is used for TLS • Is used for third- • Is used for previous
HTTPS traffic offloading, UDP, and party virtual generation EC2-
• Operates at OSI layer static IP addresses appliance fleet using Classic networks
7, the application • Operates at OSI layer GENEVE protocol • Operates at OSI
layer 4, the transport layer • Operates at OSI layer layers 3 and 7, the
• Is used for • Is used for millions of 3, the network layer transport and
application requests per second • Is used to improve application layers
architectures at ultra-low latency security, compliance, • Is used if upgrading
and policy controls to other load
balancers is not
feasible
You can select the type of load balancer that best suits your needs. All the types offer the high availability,
automatic scaling, and robust security required to make your applications fault-tolerant.
AnApplication Load Balancer (ALB) functions at the application layer, the seventh layer of the Open Systems
Interconnection (OSI) model.It routes HTTP and HTTPS traffic to targets such as EC2 instances, containers, IP
addresses, and Lambda functions based on the content of the request. ALBs support Automatic Target Weights
(ATW), which use a routing algorithm to optimize the amount of traffic sent to each target based on information
available to the load balancer. ALB will adjust the amount of traffic sent to each target based on implicit health
information, such as 5XX errors and connection errors.
A Network Load Balancer functions at the fourth layer of the OSI model, the transport layer. It can handle
millions of requests per second and routes connections to targets such as EC2 instances, containers, Application
Load Balancers, and IP addresses. It supports TCP, UDP, TCP_UDP, and TLS protocols and performs with ultra-low
latencies. A Network Load Balancer is optimized to handle sudden and volatile network traffic patterns.
A Gateway Load Balancer operates at the third layer of the OSI model, the network layer. By using a Gateway
Load Balancer, you can deploy, scale, and manage virtual appliances, such as firewalls, intrusion detection and
prevention systems, and deep packet inspection systems. A Gateway Load Balancer combines a single entry and
exit point for all traffic and distributes traffic while scaling your virtual appliances with the demand.
A Classic Load Balancer provides basic load balancing across multiple EC2 instances, and it operates at both the
application level and network transport level. A Classic Load Balancer supports the load balancing of
applications that use HTTP, HTTPS, TCP, and SSL. The Classic Load Balancer is an older implementation. When
possible, AWS recommends that you use a dedicated Application Load Balancer or Network Load Balancer.
=== Page 46 ===
Load balancer components
Aload balancerserves as the single point of contact for clients. The load balancer distributes incoming
application traffic across multiple targets, such as EC2 instances, in multiple Availability Zones. This increases
the availability of your application. You add one or more listeners to your load balancer.
Alistenerchecks for connection requests from clients by using the protocol and port that you configure. The
rules that you define for a listener determine how the load balancer routes requests to its registered targets.
Each rule consists of a priority, one or more actions, and one or more conditions. When the conditions for a rule
are met, then its actions are performed. You must define a default rule for each listener, and you can optionally
define additional rules.
Some listeners such as HTTPS and TLS listeners require TLS server certificates on your load balancer to ensure
that traffic is protected in transit. The HTTPS and TLS protocols use encryption to secure messages that are sent
over shared networks.
AWS Certificate Manager (ACM) is a service that you can use to provision, manage, and deploy public and
private SSL/TLS certificates for use on AWS services such as load balancers. SSL/TLS certificates are used to
secure network communications and establish the identity of websites over the internet and resources on
private networks.The load balancer uses a server certificate to end the frontend connection and then decrypt
requests from clients before sending them to the targets. If you need to pass encrypted traffic to targets
without the load balancer decrypting it, you can create a Network Load Balancer or Classic Load Balancer with a
TCP listener. With a TCP listener, the load balancer passes encrypted traffic through to the targets without
decrypting it.
Eachtarget grouproutes requests to one or more registered targets, such as EC2 instances, by using the
protocol and port number that you specify. You can register a target with multiple target groups, and you can
configure health checks for each target group. Health checks are performed on all targets registered to a target
group that is specified in a listener rule for your load balancer.
=== Page 47 ===
You define health check settings for your load balancer for each target group. Each target group uses
the default health check settings unless you override them when you create the target group or
modify them later on. After you specify a target group in a rule for a listener, the load balancer
continually monitors the health of all targets registered with the target group that are in an
Availability Zone enabled for the load balancer. The load balancer routes requests to the registered
targets that are healthy.
=== Page 48 ===
High availability by using an Application Load Balancer and Amazon RDS Multi-AZ
An Application Load Balancer functions at the application layer, the seventh layer of the OSI model. After the
load balancer receives a request, it evaluates the listener rules in order of priority to determine which rule to
apply and then selects a target from the target group for the rule action. You can configure listener rules to
route requests to different target groups based on the content of the application traffic. Routing is performed
independently for each target group even when a target is registered with multiple target groups. You can
configure the routing algorithm used at the target group level. The default routing algorithm is round robin
which routes each request to the next target in the group. Alternatively, you can specify the routing algorithm
for the least outstanding requests.
In the example on this slide, single points of failure have been eliminated. Application Load Balancer 1 is
external facing and receives public HTTP and HTTPS traffic from a browser client routed through Route 53. It
distributes traffic to the Web tier target group, which includes a fleet of EC2 instances in Auto scaling group 1 in
Availability Zones AZ1 and AZ2.
If the health check for one EC2 instance fails, Application Load Balancer 1 will not send any traffic to the EC2
instance. It will send a unhealthy instance notification to Auto Scaling group 1 to end the instance and replace it
with a healthy instance.
If there is a failure at the Availability Zone level, then Application Load Balancer 1 will send traffic to only the
healthy EC2 instances in the other Availability Zone.
Similarly to Application Load Balancer 1, Application Load Balancer 2 follows the same high availability pattern.
It is internal facing and receives private traffic from the Web tier target group. It distributes traffic to the App
tier target group, which includes a fleet of EC2 instances in Auto Scaling group 2 in Availability Zones AZ1 and
AZ2. This will protect the application against EC2 instance failure or Availability Zone failure.
=== Page 49 ===
The data tier has also implemented high availability by implementing an Amazon RDS Multi-AZ
configuration. The primary database in AZ1 synchronously replicates data to the secondary database
in AZ2. If the database fails or the Availability Zone has issues, then the secondary database is
promoted to be the primary database, which makes it highly available.
This architecture can be duplicated to another Region in case of Regional issues. For more
information, see the Planning for Disaster module.
=== Page 50 ===
High availability by using a Network Load Balancer
Network Load Balancers can be used to expose a centralized service. As you learned in the Connecting
Networks module, the Consumer VPC uses the Service provider VPC for a specific service.
A Network Load Balancer functions at the fourth layer of the OSI model. It can handle millions of requests per
second. Network Load Balancers support connections from clients over VPC peering, VPC endpoints, AWS
managed VPN, AWS Direct Connect, and third-party VPN solutions. After the load balancer receives a
connection request, it selects a target from the target group for the default rule. It attempts to open a TCP
connection to the selected target on the port specified in the listener configuration.
Each Network Load Balancer receives a default DNS name with the following syntax: name-
id.elb.region.amazonaws.com. An example is my-load-balancer-1234567890abcdef.elb.us-east-
2.amazonaws.com. If you'd prefer to use a DNS name that is easier to remember, you can create a custom
domain name and associate it with the DNS name for your load balancer. When a client makes a request by
using this custom domain name, the DNS server resolves it to the DNS name for your load balancer.
You can create a target group with a single Application Load Balancer as the target and configure your Network
Load Balancer to forward traffic to it. In this scenario, the Application Load Balancer takes over the load
balancing decision as soon as traffic reaches it. This configuration combines the features of both load balancers.
This means that you can use the layer 7 request-based routing feature of the Application Load Balancer in
combination with features that the Network Load Balancer supports, such as endpoint services and static IP
addresses. You can use this configuration for applications that need a single endpoint for multi-protocols, such
as media services that use HTTP for signaling and RTP to stream content.
=== Page 51 ===
Security service by using a Gateway Load Balancer
Image description: VPC 1 has a private subnet containing an EC2 instance and a public subnet with an attached
Gateway Load Balancer endpoint and an internet gateway. VPC 2 has a Gateway Load Balancer and EC2 security
appliance instance. End of image description.
The Gateway Load Balancer is a specific security solution to scan incoming and outgoing traffic by using virtual
appliances.
A Gateway Load Balancer operates at the third layer of the OSI model, the network layer. It listens for all IP
packets across all ports and forwards traffic to the target group that's specified in the listener rule. It maintains
stickiness of flows to a specific target appliance by using 5-tuple (for TCP/UDP flows) or 3-tuple (for non-
TCP/UDP flows). The Gateway Load Balancer and its registered virtual appliance instances exchange application
traffic by using theGENEVEprotocol:
1. All traffic entering VPC 1 through the internet gateway is first routed to the Gateway Load Balancer endpoint
in VPC 1.
2. The traffic is then routed to the Gateway Load Balancer in VPC 2. The Gateway Load Balancer distributes the
traffic to the Amazon EC2 security appliance for inspection. The security appliance responds to the Gateway
Load Balancer, which returns the inspected traffic to the Gateway Load Balancer endpoint.
3. The Gateway Load Balancer endpoint sends the traffic to the EC2 application instance.
Similarly, all traffic leaving the EC2 application instance follows the same path as incoming traffic.
Gateway Load Balancers and Network Load Balancers perform different functions. A Gateway Load Balancer is a
security solution that uses the GENEVE protocol, and a Network Load Balancer exposes services and distributes
network traffic across multiple servers.
=== Page 52 ===
Demo: Creating a • This demonstration uses Amazon EC2.
Highly Available
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
Application do the following:
• Create a highly available application with
Elastic Load Balancing and Auto Scaling groups.
• Create an Application Load Balancer.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 53 ===
Key takeaways: • ELB distributes traffic across multiple targets
in one or more Availability Zones and
Using load
monitors the health of registered targets
balancers to create
with health checks.
highly available
• An Application Load Balancer is used for
environments
application architectures and operates at the
OSI model application layer (layer 7).
• A Network Load Balancer is used for millions
of concurrent, ultra-low latency requests and
operates at the OSI model transport layer
(layer 4).
• A Gateway Load Balancer is used to improve
security, compliance, and policy controls and
operates at the OSI model network layer
(layer 3).
=== Page 54 ===
Using Route 53 to create highly
available environments
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to use Route 53 to create highly available environments.
=== Page 55 ===
DNS lookups
All computers on the Internet—from your smartphone or laptop to the servers that serve content for massive
retail websites—find and communicate with one another by using IP addresses. When you open a web browser
and go to a website, you don't have to remember and enter a long number. Instead, you can enter a domain
namesuch as myweb.com and still end up in the right place.
The DNS is a globally distributed service that translates human readable names such as www.myweb.com into
the numeric IP addresses such as 192.0.2.1 that computers use to connect to each other. The internet’s DNS
works much like a phone book by managing the mapping between names and numbers. DNS servers translate
requests for names into IP addresses, controlling which server an end user will reach when they enter a domain
name into their web browser. These requests are calledqueries.
Clients typically do not make queries directly to authoritative DNS services. Instead, clients generally connect to
another type of DNS service known aresolver, or arecursive DNSservice. A recursive DNS service doesn't own
any DNS records but acts as an intermediary that can get the DNS information on your behalf. If a recursive DNS
service has the DNS referencecached or stored for a period of time, then it answers the DNS query by providing
the source or IP information. If not, it passes the query to one or more authoritative DNS servers to find the
information.
=== Page 56 ===
The example on this slide has the following steps:
1. A user opens a web browser, enters www.myweb.com into the address bar, and presses Enter.
The request for www.myweb.com is routed to a DNS resolver, which is typically managed by the
user's internet service provider (ISP).
2. The DNS resolver for the ISP forwards the request for www.myweb.com to a DNS root name
server, which returns the location of the top-level domain (TLD) name server for .com.
3. The DNS resolver for the ISP forwards the request for www.myweb.com again, this time to one
of the TLD name servers for .com domains. The name server for .com domains responds to the
request with the names of multiple name servers that are associated with the example.com
domain.
4. The DNS resolver for the ISP chooses a name server and forwards the request for
www.myweb.com to that name server. The name server looks in the myweb.com hosted zone
for the www.myweb.com record, gets the associated value (such as the IP address for a web
server, 192.0.3.4), and returns the IP address to the DNS resolver.
5. The DNS resolver for the ISP finally has the IP address that the user needs. The resolver returns
that value to the web browser.
6. The DNS resolver also caches the IP address for myweb.com for an amount of time that you
specify so that it can respond more quickly the next time someone browses to myweb.com.
7. The web browser sends a request for www.myweb.com to the IP address that it got from the
DNS resolver. The myweb server at 192.0.3.4 returns the web page for www.myweb.com to the
web browser, and the web browser displays the page.
For more information, see What is DNS?on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 57 ===
Route 53
• Is a DNS web service that manages domain name
registrations and provides hosted zones.
• Provides authoritative name servers for DNS resolution
• Performs DNS routing to route traffic to healthy
endpoints
• Performs health checks against IP addresses or
domains to manage Availability Zone or Regional
Route 53 failovers
• Can monitor CloudWatch alarms
• Supports multiple routing options
You can implement multi-Region high availability and fault tolerance in your network architecture by using
Route 53. Route53 is a highly available and scalable DNS web service. You can use Route53 to perform three
main functions in any combination: domain registration, DNS routing, and health checking. When users request
your website or web application, for example, by entering the name of your domain in a web browser, Route 53
helps to route users to your resources. Those resources might be an S3 bucket or a web server in your data
center.
Route 53 offers domain name registration. You can purchase and manage domain names such as myweb.com,
and Route 53 automatically configures DNS settings for your domains. You can create a hosted zone in Route 53.
A hosted zone is a container for records, which include information about how you want to route traffic for a
domain (such as myweb.com) and all of its subdomains (such as www.myweb.com, retail.myweb.com, and
accounting.myweb.com). A hosted zone has the same name as the corresponding domain.
Route 53 provides name servers to form part of the DNS that help to translate domain names into IP addresses.
Route 53 effectively connects user requests to infrastructure that runs in AWS such as EC2 instances, ELB load
balancers, or S3 buckets. You can also use Route 53 to route users to infrastructure outside AWS.
Route53 also perform health checks to monitor the health of your resources, such as web servers and email
servers. You can configure endpoint health checks or calculated health checks that monitor other health checks.
You can also configure CloudWatch alarm health checks to monitor the status of CloudWatch metrics. Amazon
Route 53 Application Recovery Controller now offers zonal autoshift, a feature that you can enable to safely and
automatically shift your application’s traffic away from an AWS Availability Zone when AWS identifies a potential
failure affecting that Availability Zone. For failures such as power and networking outages, zonal autoshift
improves the availability of your application by shifting your application traffic away from an affected Availability
Zone to healthy Availability Zones.
=== Page 58 ===
Route 53 offers various routing options, which can be combined with DNS failover to enable low-
latency, fault-tolerant architectures. Amazon Route53 Application Recovery Controller gives you
insights into whether your applications and resources are ready for recovery and helps you manage
and coordinate failover. Health checks in Amazon Route53 Application Recovery Controller are
associated with routing controls, which are on/off switches. You configure each routing control
health check with a failover DNS record. Then you can update your routing controls in Amazon
Route53 Application Recovery Controller to reroute traffic and fail over your applications, for
example, across Availability Zones or AWS Regions.
=== Page 59 ===
DNS lookups with Route 53
The diagram on this slide is the same DNS lookup diagram as described earlier in this section. However, in this
diagram, the myweb server is hosted on an EC2 instance within an Amazon VPC, and Route 53 is the name
server.
Route53 name servers are the authoritative name servers for every domain that uses Route 53 as the DNS
service. The name servers know how you want to route traffic for your domain and subdomains based on the
records that you created in the hosted zone for the domain. Route53 name servers store the hosted zones for
the domains that use Route53 as the DNS service. For example, if a Route53 name server receives a request
for www.myweb.com, it finds that record and returns the IP address, such as 192.0.3.4, that is specified in the
record.
=== Page 60 ===
Route 53 routing policies
Simple Weighted Latency Failover
Geoproximity Geolocation Multivalue answer IP-based
Route 53 supports multiple types of routing policies, which determine how Route 53 responds to queries.
You can use simple routing to configure standard DNS records with no special Route53 routing, such as
weighted or latency. With simple routing, you typically route traffic to a single resource (for example, to a web
server for your website).
You can use weighted routing to associate multiple resources with a single domain name or subdomain name
and choose how much traffic is routed to each resource. This can be useful for a variety of purposes, including
load balancing and testing new versions of software. To configure weighted routing, you create records that
have the same name and type for each of your resources. You assign each record a relative weight that
corresponds with how much traffic you want to send to each resource. Route53 sends traffic to a resource
based on the weight that you assign to the record as a proportion of the total weight for all records in the
group.
If your application is hosted in multiple AWS Regions, you can improve performance for your users by serving
their requests from the AWS Region that provides the lowest latency. To use latency-based routing, you create
latency records for your resources in multiple AWS Regions. When Route53 receives a DNS query for your
domain or subdomain, it determines which AWS Regions you've created latency records for, determines which
Region gives the user the lowest latency, and then selects a latency record for that Region.
You can use failover routing to route traffic to a resource when the resource is healthy or to a different resource
when the first resource is unhealthy. The primary and secondary records can route traffic to anything from an S3
bucket that is configured as a website to a complex tree of records.
=== Page 61 ===
Geoproximity routing gives Route53 the ability to route traffic to your resources based on the
geographic location of your users and your resources. You can also optionally choose to route more
traffic or less traffic to a given resource by specifying a value, known as abias. A bias expands or
shrinks the size of the geographic Region from which traffic is routed to a resource. To use
geoproximity routing, you must use Route53traffic flow. You create geoproximity rules for your
resources, and these rules allocate an area from your resources to be used for routing to the
resource.
You can use geolocation routing to choose the resources that serve your traffic based on the
geographic location of your users, meaning the location that DNS queries originate from. For
example, you might want all queries from Europe to be routed to an ELB load balancer in the
Frankfurt Region. When you use geolocation routing, you can localize your content and present
some or all of your website in the language of your users. You can also use geolocation routing to
restrict the distribution of content to only the locations in which you have distribution rights. You
can specify geographic locations by continent, by country, or by state in the United States.
You can use multivalue answer routing to configure Route53 to return multiple values, such as IP
addresses for your web servers, in response to DNS queries. You can specify multiple values for
almost any record. You can also use multivalue answer routing to check the health of each resource
so that Route53 returns values for only healthy resources. It's not a substitute for a load balancer,
but the ability to return multiple IP addresses that have passed health checks is a way to use DNS to
improve availability and load balancing.
With IP-based routing in Route53, you can fine-tune your DNS routing by using your understanding
of your network, applications, and clients to make the best DNS routing decisions for your end users.
IP-based routing gives you granular control to optimize performance or reduce network costs by
uploading your data to Route53 in the form of user-IP-to-endpoint mappings. IP-based routing
offers you the ability to optimize routing based on specific knowledge of your customer base. For
example, a global video content provider might want to route end users from a particular ISP.
=== Page 62 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demonstration uses Amazon Route
Route 53: Simple 53.
Routing • In this demonstration, you will see how to
do the following:
• Configure Route 53 to evenly distribute HTTP
request between two EC2 instances.
• Define a Route 53 record set.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 63 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demonstration uses Amazon Route
Route 53: 53.
Failover Routing • In this demonstration, you will see how to
do the following:
• Use Route 53 to direct traffic to two availability
zones for use in failures.
• Define a Route 53 Health Check.
• Send Route 53 Health Check alerts to an
administrator.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 64 ===
Demo: Amazon • This demonstration uses Amazon Route
Route 53: 53.
Geolocation • In this demonstration, you will see how to
Routing do the following:
• Use geolocation routing to serve traffic based
on geographic location.
• Localize content for a geographic groups of
users.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 65 ===
Route 53 public and private hosted zones
Public hosted Private hosted
zones are used zones are used
to route internet to route
traffic. VPC traffic.
To configure Route53 to route traffic to your resources, you have to create a public or a private hosted zone. A
hosted zone is a container for multiple records, and records contain information about how you want to route
traffic for a specific domain (such as example.com) and its subdomains (such as acme.example.com and
zenith.example.com). Create a public hosted zone if you want to route internet traffic to your resources: for
example, so that your customers can view the company website that you're hosting on EC2 instances. Create a
private hosted zone if you want to route traffic within a customer VPC.
Next you create records in the hosted zone. Records define where you want to route traffic for each domain
name or subdomain name. For example, to route traffic for www.example.com to a web server in your data
center, you typically create a www.example.com record in the example.com hosted zone.
When you create a record, you choose a routing policy and an optional failover destination. Next, you choose a
record type. Some of the most commonly used record types are A, AAAA, CNAME, MX, and NS records.
You use an A record to route traffic to a resource, such as a web server, by using an IPv4 address. You use an
AAAA record to route traffic to a resource, such as a web server, by using an IPv6 address in colon-separated
hexadecimal format. A CNAME record maps DNS queries for the name of the current record, such as
acme.example.com, to another domain (example.com or example.net) or subdomain (acme.example.com or
zenith.example.org). An MX record specifies the names of your mail servers and, if you have two or more mail
servers, the priority order. An NS record identifies the name servers for the hosted zone. For more information,
see "Supported DNS Record Types" in the Amazon Route 53 Developer Guide. The link is in your course
resources.
=== Page 66 ===
Route53 Resolver responds recursively to DNS queries from AWS resources for public records,
Amazon VPC specific DNS names, and Route53 private hosted zones and is available by default in all
VPCs. A Route53 Resolver automatically answers DNS queries for the following:
• Local VPC domain names for EC2 instances (for example, ec2-192-0-2-44.compute-
1.amazonaws.com)
• Records in private hosted zones (for example, acme.example.com)
• Public domain name lookups against public name servers on the internet
=== Page 67 ===
Multi-Region failover
If you have multiple resources that perform the same function, you can configure DNS failover so that Route 53
will route your traffic from an unhealthy resource to a healthy resource. For example, if you have two resources
and one becomes unhealthy, Route53 can route traffic to the other resource. In the example on this slide,
Application Load Balancer 1 is not healthy in Region A, so Route 53 directs traffic to the healthy Application
Load Balancer 2 in Region B.
Use an active-passive failover configuration when you want a primary resource or group of resources to be
available the majority of the time and you want a secondary resource or group of resources to be on standby in
case all the primary resources become unavailable. When responding to queries, Route53 includes only the
healthy primary resources. If all the primary resources are unhealthy, Route53 begins to include only the
healthy secondary resources in response to DNS queries.
To create an active-passive failover configuration with one primary record and one secondary record, you create
the records and specifyfailoverfor the routing policy. When the primary resource is healthy, Route53 responds
to DNS queries by using the primary record. When the primary resource is unhealthy, Route 53 responds to DNS
queries by using the secondary record.
Route53 can check the health of your resources in both simple and complex configurations. In simple
configurations, you create a group of records that all have the same name and type, such as a group of
weighted records with a type of A for example.com. You then configure Route53 to check the health of the
corresponding resources. Route53 responds to DNS queries based on the health of your resources.
In more complex configurations, you create a tree of records that route traffic based on multiple criteria. For
example, if latency for your users is your most important criterion, then you might use latency alias records to
route traffic to the Region that provides the best latency. The latency alias records might have weighted records
in each Region as the alias target. The weighted records might route traffic to EC2 instances based on the
instance type. As with a simple configuration, you can configure Route53 to route traffic based on the health of
your resources.
=== Page 68 ===
Key takeaways: • Route 53 is a DNS service that does the
following:
Using Route 53 to
• Manages domain name registrations
create highly
• Provides hosted zones and authoritative name servers
available
• Performs DNS routing and health checks
environments
• Route 53 supports multiple routing options,
including the following:
• Simple routing
• Weighted routing
• Latency routing
• Failover routing
• Geoproximity routing
• Geolocation routing
• Multivalue answer routing
• IP-based routing
=== Page 69 ===
Guided Lab:
Creating a Highly Available
Environment (High availability lab)
You will now complete a guided lab. The next slide summarizes what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 70 ===
High availability • In this lab, you perform the following
main tasks:
lab tasks:
• Inspect a provided VPC.
• Create an Application Load Balancer.
• Create an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group by
using a launch template.
• Update security groups.
• Test the application.
• Test the application for high availability.
• This lab includes the following optional
tasks:
• Make the database highly available.
• Configure a highly available NAT gateway.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 71 ===
Debrief: High availability lab
• How did you determine which instances your Application Load
Balancer should send traffic to?
• How did you determine the characteristics of the instances that
would be launched in your Auto Scaling group?
=== Page 72 ===
Café lab: Creating a Scalable and
Highly Available Environment for the
Café (High availability café lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 73 ===
The evolving café architecture: version 6
Architecture
Business reason for update Technical Requirements and Architecture Update
Version
V1 Create a static website for a small Host the website on Amazon S3.
business.
V2 Add online ordering. Deploy the web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce the effort to maintain the Separate the web and database layers. Migrate the database
database and secure its data. to Amazon RDS on a private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon VPC features to configure and secure public and
application. private subnets.
V5 Create separate access mechanisms Add IAM groups and attach resource polices to application
based on role. resources. Add IAM users to groups based on role.
V6 Ensure that the website can handle Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
an expected increase in traffic. instances, and distribute compute and database instances
across two Availability Zones.
V7 Module 11 info
V8 Module 14 info
The cafe’s dynamic website is successfully handling online orders, and the cafe owners are finding valuable
business information in the order history data. Martha uses the order history data in the application database
for accounting, and Frank uses it as an input for deciding how many of each type of dessert to bake.
Currently, a single EC2 instance hosts the web server, database, and application code. Given a growing number
of website users and the additional querying of the database by the cafe owners, Sofia is concerned about the
performance and security of the application. Additionally, she finds it is taking more and more time to handle
database upgrades and patches. She knows they aren’t doing database backups as regularly as they should, but
they often can’t find the time. Nikhil can help with some tasks, but she is the only one with any database
administration skills. Training someone for this specialized skill would be too time consuming, and Martha does
not want to hire additional staff. In fact, Martha has voiced concern about reducing the labor costs of
maintaining the website application and has asked Sofia to look for ways of reducing time spent on these
operational tasks
Sofia needs to find a database solution that is easier to maintain. Sofia asks Olivia, the AWS solutions architect
who visits the cafe, for suggestions. Olivia recommends that in addition to reducing operational tasks while
maintaining security and performance, Sofia needs to factor durability and scalability into her decision so that
the cafe is prepared for expected growth.
=== Page 74 ===
High availability • In this lab, you will perform the following
Café lab tasks main tasks:
• Add a load balancer
• Implement auto scaling on the EC2 instances
• Distribute compute and database instances
across two Availability Zones
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 75 ===
Debrief: High availability café lab
• Where did you determine the AMI, instance type, key pair, and
security groups that would be used to launch EC2 instances in your
Auto Scaling group?
• When you conducted a stress test on your instances, why did the
Auto Scaling group launch more instances?
=== Page 76 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to highly
available systems
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles to highly available systems.
=== Page 77 ===
Well-Architected Framework best practices for highly
available systems
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the reliability and performance efficiency pillars that are most relevant to this module. For a
complete set of best practices by pillar on the Well-Architected Framework website, see the content resources
section of your online course.
This section focuses on high availability. A system that is available is capable of delivering the designed
functionality at a given point in time. Highly available systems are those that can withstand some measure of
degradation while still remaining available.
=== Page 78 ===
Best practice approach: Failure management – use fault
isolation to protect your workload
Best practices
Deploy the workload to multiple locations.
Automate recovery for components
constrained to a single location.
To ensure that failures do not affect a whole system, use fault isolation boundaries. Fault isolation boundaries
limit the effect of a failure within a workload to a limited number of components. The failure doesn’t affect
components outside the boundary. By using multiple fault isolation boundaries, you can limit the impact on
your workload.
Deploy the workload to multiple locations: Distribute workload data and resources across multiple Availability
Zones or, where necessary, across AWS Regions. These locations can be as diverse as required. One of the
bedrock principles for service design in AWS is avoiding single points of failure in underlying physical
infrastructure. This motivates users to build software and systems that use multiple Availability Zones and are
resilient to the failure of a single zone. Similarly, systems are built to be resilient to the failure of a single
compute node, single storage volume, or single instance of a database. When building a system that relies on
redundant components, it’s important to ensure that the components operate independently and, in the case
of AWS Regions, autonomously.
Automate recovery for components constrained to a single location: If the best practice to deploy the
workload to multiple locations is not possible due to technological constraints, you must implement an
alternate path to resiliency. You must automate the ability to recreate necessary infrastructure, redeploy
applications, and recreate necessary data for these cases. Deploy your instances or containers by using
automatic scaling when possible. If you cannot use automatic scaling, use automatic recovery for EC2 instances
or implement self-healing automation based on Amazon EC2 or ECS container lifecycle events. Use Amazon EC2
Auto Scaling groupsfor instances and container workloads that have no requirements for a single instance IP
address, private IP address, Elastic IP address, and instance metadata.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices, including
Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling and Amazon RDS Multi-AZ deployments.
=== Page 79 ===
Best practice approach: Failure management – design
your workload to withstand component failures
Best practices
Fail over to healthy resources.
Send notifications when events impact
availability.
It is a best practice to have a backup plan if resources are impaired. When designing a service, always distribute
the load across resources, Availability Zones, or Regions. Therefore, shifting traffic to the remaining healthy
resources can mitigate the failure of an individual resource or impairment. Consider how services are
discovered and routed to in the event of a failure.
Fail over to healthy resources: If a resource failure occurs, healthy resources should continue to serve requests.
For location impairments (such as Availability Zone or AWS Region), ensure that you have systems in place to fail
over to healthy resources in unimpaired locations. When designing a service, always distribute the load across
resources, Availability Zones, or Regions. Therefore, shifting traffic to the remaining healthy resources can
mitigate the failure of an individual resource or impairment. Consider how services are discovered and routed
to in the event of a failure. The patterns and designs that allow for the failover vary for each AWS platform
service. Many AWS managed services are deployed in multiple Availability Zones such as Lambda, Aurora, and
DynamoDB. Other AWS services, such as Amazon EC2 and Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS),
require specific best practice designs to support the failover of resources or data storage across Availability
Zones. Monitoring should be set up to check that the failover resource is healthy, track the progress of the
resources failing over, and monitor business process recovery. The desired outcome is that systems are capable
of automatically or manually using new resources to recover from degradation.
=== Page 80 ===
Send notifications when events impact availability: Notifications are sent upon the detection of
thresholds breached even if the event causing the issue was automatically resolved. Automated
healing helps make your workload reliable. However, it can also obscure underlying problems that
need to be addressed. Implement appropriate monitoring and events so that you can detect
patterns of problems, including those addressed by auto healing, so that you can resolve the root
cause of issues. Resilient systems are designed so that degradation events are immediately
communicated to the appropriate teams. These notifications should be sent through one or many
communication channels. The desired outcome is to send alerts immediately to operations teams
when thresholds are breached, such as error rates, latency, or other critical key performance
indicator (KPI) metrics, so that these issues are resolved as soon as possible and user impact is
avoided or minimized.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices,
including Route 53, CloudWatch, and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
=== Page 81 ===
Best practice approach: Compute and hardware
Best practices
Scale your compute resources dynamically.
Automation is key in assigning enough resources for your workload. The optimal compute choice for a particular
workload can vary based on application design, usage patterns, and configuration settings. Architectures might
use different compute choices for various components and allow different features to improve performance.
Selecting the wrong compute choice for an architecture can lead to lower performance efficiency.
Scale your compute resources dynamically: AWS provides the flexibility to scale your resources up or down
dynamically through a variety of scaling mechanisms in order to meet changes in demand. Combined with
compute-related metrics, dynamic scaling allows workloads to automatically respond to changes and use the
optimal set of compute resources to achieve its goal. You must ensure that workload deployments can handle
both scale-up and scale-down events. You can use a number of different approaches to match the supply of
resources with demand.
• Target-tracking approach:Monitor your scaling metric, and automatically increase or decrease capacity as
you need it.
• Predictive scaling:Scale in anticipation of daily and weekly trends.
• Schedule-based approach:Set your own scaling schedule according to predictable load changes.
• Service scaling:Choose services such as serverless services that automatically scale by design.
In this module, you've learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices, including ELB,
CloudWatch, and Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling.
=== Page 82 ===
Key takeaways:
• Deploy the workload to multiple
Applying AWS
locations.
Well-Architected
• Automate recovery for components
Framework
constrained to a single location.
principles to high
availability • Fail over to healthy resources.
• Send notifications when events impact
availability.
• Scale your compute resources
dynamically.
=== Page 83 ===
Module wrap-up
Implementing Monitoring, Elasticity, and High Availability
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 84 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Examine how reactive architectures use Amazon CloudWatch and Amazon
EventBridgeto monitor metrics and facilitate notification events.
• Use Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling within an architecture to promote elasticity and
create a highly available environment.
• Determine how to scale your database resources.
• Identify a load balancing strategy to create a highly available environment.
• Use Amazon Route 53 for DNS failover.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing highly
available systems.
=== Page 85 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how the café lab in this module
answered the key questions and decisions
presented at the start of this module for the
café business.
=== Page 86 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on the material
presented on the slides and in the slide
notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 87 ===
Sample exam question
A web application gives customers the ability to upload orders to an Amazon S3 bucket. The resulting Amazon S3 events initiate
an AWS Lambda function that inserts a message into an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue. A single Amazon
EC2 instance reads the messages from the queue, processes them, and stores them in an Amazon DynamoDB table partitioned
by unique order ID. Next month, traffic is expected to increase by a factor of 10, and a solutions architect is reviewing the
architecture for possible scaling problems. Which component is MOST likely to need re-architecting to be able to scale to
accommodate the new traffic?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the keywords and phrases:
• A single EC2 instance
• Able to scale
The question notes the need to scale to meet increasing traffic and that there is a single EC2 instance reading
from the queue.
=== Page 88 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
A web application gives customers the ability to upload orders to an Amazon S3 bucket. The resulting Amazon S3 events initiate
an AWS Lambda function that inserts a message into an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue. A single Amazon
EC2 instance reads the messages from the queue, processes them, and stores them in an Amazon DynamoDB table partitioned
by unique order ID. Next month, traffic is expected to increase by a factor of 10, and a solutions architect is reviewing the
architecture for possible scaling problems. Which component is MOST likely to need re-architecting to be able to scale to
accommodate the new traffic?
Choice Response
A Lambda function
B SQS queue
C EC2 instance
D DynamoDB table
Use the keywords that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 89 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is C.
Choice Response
C EC2 instance
Choice A (Lambda function), B (SQS queue), and D (DynamoDB table) are all managed services that can be
configured to scale or that scale automatically.
Response C (EC2 instance) is the most likely part of this architecture to need an update. A single EC2 instance
does not scale and is a single point of failure in the architecture. A better solution would be to have EC2
instances in an Auto Scaling group across two Availability Zones and have them read messages from the queue.
=== Page 90 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.