# Clean Text Extracted from: 11.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:11
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 11 Student Guide
Version 3.0.3
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 11: Automating Your Architecture 4
=== Page 4 ===
Automating Your Architecture
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Automating Your Architecture module. This module introduces you to the foundations of
automation and infrastructure as code (IaC). The module also introduces AWS CloudFormation, a service that
helps you model and set up your AWS resources by using a template that describes the resources you want. The
template then takes care of provisioning and configuring those resources for you. You will also learn about some
additional tools to help you implement CloudFormation more quickly.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Automating Your Architecture
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the following:
objectives
• Recognize when to use architecture automation and
why.
• Identify how to use infrastructure as code (IaC) as a
strategy for provisioning and managing cloud
resources.
• Identify how to model, create, and manage a
collection of AWS resources by using AWS
CloudFormation.
• Identify how to use AWS Quick Start
CloudFormation templates to set up an
architecture.
• Identify uses of Amazon Q Developer.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing automation strategies.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demos
• Reasons to automate • Analyzing an AWS CloudFormation
Template
• Using infrastructure as code
• AWS CloudFormation Resources
• Customizing with CloudFormation
• Reviewing an AWS CloudFormation
• Using AWS Quick Starts Template
• Customizing with AmazonQ • Using the AWS CloudFormation Console
Developer
Knowledge checks
• Applying AWS Well-Architected
• 10-question knowledge check
Framework principles
• Sample exam question
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also view a series of demonstrations that show how to work with CloudFormation. These demos
include an overview of CloudFormation resources, an analysis of a CloudFormation template, a review of a
template with customization, and an overview of using the CloudFormation console.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab Challenge (Café) lab
• Automating Infrastructure • Automating Infrastructure
Deployment with AWS Deployment
CloudFormation
This module includes the hands-on labs listed. The guided lab provides you with step-by-step instructions. In the
café (challenge) lab, you work on updating the architecture for the café. Additional information about each lab
is included in the student guide where the lab takes place, and the lab environment provides detailed
instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud • I need to use automation to reduce the
architect risks of manual processes when building
architectures and maximize the benefit
designing:
from reproducible environments.
• I need to deploy my architectures by
using infrastructure as code so that I can
rapidly and consistently deploy
environments and changes.
• I need to consider how my automation
design decisions impact performance and
cost so that I can optimize the value of
the architecture to the business.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach designing for
automation. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module, remembering that the
cloud architect should work backward from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example
business need, and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Reasons to automate
Automating Your Architecture
This section describes reasons to automate when architecting for the cloud.
=== Page 11 ===
Process without automation
Long manual process to
build an architecture
Many organizations will start using AWS by manually creating an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
bucket or by launching an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance and running a web server on
it. Then, over time, they manually add more resources as they find that expanding their use of AWS can meet
additional business needs. Soon, however, it can become challenging to manually manage and maintain these
resources.
Manual processes are error prone, unreliable, and inadequate to support an agile business. Frequently, an
organization may tie up highly skilled resources to provide manual configuration when time could be better
spent supporting other more critical and higher value activities within the business.
When considering building an architecture manually or with automation, the following are some questions to
ask:
• Where do you want to put your efforts—into the design or the implementation? What are the risks of
manual implementations?
• How would you ideally update production servers? How will you roll out deployments across multiple
geographic regions? When things break—and they will—how will you manage the rollback to the last known
good version?
• How will you debug deployments? Can you fix the bugs in your application before you roll the deployment
out to the customer? How will you discover what is wrong and then fix it so that it remains fixed?
• How will you manage dependencies on the various systems and subsystems in your organization?
• Is it realistic that you will be able to do all these tasks through manual configurations?
=== Page 12 ===
Risks from manual processes
Does not support Does not have version Lacks audit trails Has inconsistent
repeatability at scale control configurations
Manual processes create risks to your applications and environment.
Manually creating resources and adding new features and functionality to your environment does not scale. If
you are responsible for a large corporate application, there might not be enough people to manually add
features as necessary. Determine how you will replicate deployments to multiple Regions.
Creating an architecture and applications from scratch does not have inherent version control. If there is an
emergency,it’s helpful to be able to roll back the production stack to a previous version, but that is not possible
when you create your environment manually. Astackis a collection ofAWSresources that you can manage as a
single unit. Determine how you will roll back the production environment to a prior version.
Having an audit trail is important for many compliance and security situations. It’s dangerous to give anyone in
your organizationthe ability to manually control and edit your environments. Determine how you will ensure
compliance. How will you track changes to configuration details at the resource level?
Finally, consistencyis critical when you want to minimize risks. Automation helps you to maintain consistency.
Determine how you will ensure matching configurations across multiple EC2 instances.
=== Page 13 ===
Benefits of automation
Reduces manual Allows for Improves Automates testing
intervention or reproducible productivity and scaling
access environments
To minimize the risks from manual processes, modern operating environments commonly rely on full
automation. Automation eliminates manual intervention or access to production environments and focuses on
the setup, configuration, deployment, and support of infrastructure and the applications that run on it. By using
automation, you can set up reproducible environments more rapidly in a standardized and repeatable
configuration.
You can improve productivity by using automation for software testing, software releasing, machine
configuration, operating system patching, troubleshooting, or bug fixing. You can use many levels of automation
practices together. You can use automatic scaling to respond to customer demand and create more elastic
environments.
For more information about the benefits of automation, see “The Case for Investing in Cloud Automation” and
“Automation and Tooling” on the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 14 ===
Key takeaways: • Manual processes are error prone,
Reasons to unreliable, and inadequate to support an
agile business.
automate
• Manual processes create risks to
applications and environments.
• Automation helps you eliminate manual
process and build rapidly.
=== Page 15 ===
Using infrastructure as code
Automating Your Architecture
This section introduces infrastructure as code (IaC). Infrastructure was traditionally provisioned by using a
combination of scripts and manual processes. This results in the creation of new environments not always being
repeatable, reliable, or consistent. IaC solutions enable the creation, deployment, and maintenance of
infrastructure in a programmatic and descriptive way. This section discusses the benefits and approaches to IaC
and introduces several AWS IaC solutions.
=== Page 16 ===
IaC overview
IaC is the process of writing a template that
provisions and manages your cloud resources.
With IaC, you can replicate, redeploy,
Human readable Machine consumable
and repurpose infrastructure.
Infrastructure as code (IaC) is an industry term that refers to the process of provisioning and managing cloud
resources by defining them in a template file that is both human-readable and machine-consumable. Any
application environment requires many infrastructure components, such as operating systems, database
connections, and storage. Developers have to regularly set up, update, and maintain the infrastructure to
develop, test, and deploy applications.
Manual infrastructure management is time-consuming and prone to error—especially when you manage
applications at scale. With infrastructure as code, you define your infrastructure's desired state without
including all the steps to get to that state. Organizations use infrastructure as code to control costs, reduce risks,
and respond with speed to new business opportunities.
IaC continues to grow in popularity because it provides a workable solution to challenges, such as how to
replicate, redeploy, and repurpose infrastructure, reliably, and consistently.
=== Page 17 ===
IaC benefits
Rapidly deploy complex
environments with configuration
consistency.
Propagate a change to all stacks
by modifying the template.
Clean up by deleting the stack,
which deletes the resources
created.
The key benefits are reusability,
repeatability, and maintainability.
Now, consider some of the benefits of IaC in more detail. If you build infrastructure with code, you gain benefits
such as the ability to rapidly deploy complex environments. With one template (or a combination of templates),
you can build the same complex environments repeatedly. For example, a stack can include all the resources
required to run a web application, such as a web server, a database, and networking rules. If you no longer
require that web application, you can delete the stack, and all of its related resources are deleted.
In this example, you can use a single template to create three different stacks. Stack 1 is your development
environment, stack 2 is your test environment, and stack 3 is your production environment. The development
environment is typically more flexible and dynamic so that you can prototype, write, test, and debug code for
your application. The test environment simulates the production environment so that new applications can be
tested for functionality, performance, and reliability. The production environment is where your application is
made available to end users.
When you use one template to create these three stacks, you can have greater confidence that if your test jobs
performed well in the test environment, they will also perform well in the production environment. The
template minimizes the risk that the test environment is configured differently from the production
environment.
If you must make a configuration update in the test environment, your can push the update to the template to
update all the stacks. This process helps ensure that the modifications to a single environment will be reliably
propagated to all environments that should receive the update.
Another benefit is that you can clean up all the resources that were created in your account to support a test
environment after you no longer need them. This helps reduce the cost associated with resources that you no
longer need and helps keep your account clean.
=== Page 18 ===
CloudFormation
• Provides a simplified way to model, create, and
manage a collection of AWS resources
• A collection of resources is called a CloudFormation
stack.
• There is no extra charge (pay for only the resources
that you create).
• Can create, update, and delete stacks
CloudFormation • Enables orderly and predictable provisioning
and updating of resources
• Enables version control of AWS resource
deployments
CloudFormation provisions resources by using infrastructure as code. You can use CloudFormation to build and
rebuild your infrastructure and applications in a repeatable manner without needing to perform manual actions
or write custom scripts. With CloudFormation, you author a document that describes what your infrastructure
should be, including all the AWS resources that should be a part of the deployment. You can think of this
document as a model. You then use the model to create the reality because CloudFormation can actually create
the resources in your account.
When you use CloudFormation to create resources, it is called a CloudFormation stack. You create a stack,
update a stack, or delete a stack. Thus, you can provision resources in an orderly and predicable way.
By using CloudFormation, you can treat your infrastructure as code. Author it with any code editor, check it into
a version control systemsuch as GitHub, and review files with team members before you deploy into the
appropriate environments. If the CloudFormation document that you create to model your deployment is
checked into a version control system, you could always delete a stack, check out an older version of the
document, and create a stack from it. With version control, you can use essential rollback capabilities.
For more information, see the CloudFormationservice page. A link is provided in the course resources.
=== Page 19 ===
AWS IaC services that use CloudFormation
AWS Serverless AWS Cloud
AWS Elastic
AWS Quick Starts Application Model AWS Amplify Development Kit
Beanstalk
(AWS SAM) (AWS CDK)
A fully managed Automated reference An extension of A development An open source
service that architectures based CloudFormation with framework for full development
automatically on CloudFormation shorthand syntax for stack web and mobile framework to model
launches an AWS templates building common apps that requires and provision
environment with serverless less coding and less resources through
your uploaded infrastructure knowledge of CloudFormation by
application code backend integrations using familiar
programming
languages
AWS CloudFormation
AWS offers other services that help with the creation, deployment, and maintenance of infrastructure in a
programmatic way. Each service offers options for abstracting parts of the coding required to build your
infrastructure. Your decision should depend on the relative level of convenience and control that you need, and
the skills of your architecting and development teams. Whichever service you choose, behind the scenes, AWS
will use CloudFormation to deploy your resources.
AWS Elastic Beanstalk
You can use Elastic Beanstalk to deploy and manage applications in the AWS Cloud without having to learn
about the infrastructure that runs those applications. You upload your application, and Elastic Beanstalk
automatically handles the details of capacity provisioning, load balancing, scaling, and application health
monitoring. Elastic Beanstalk supports applications developed in many common programming languages,
including Go, Java, .NET, Node.js, PHP, Python, and Ruby. When you deploy your application, Elastic Beanstalk
builds the selected supported platform version and provisions one or more AWS resources, such as EC2
instances, to run your application.
AWS Quick Starts
AWS Quick Starts are automated reference architectures that streamline the deployment of key workloads on
the AWS Cloud. By using best practices and automating hundreds of manual procedures, Quick Starts can help
you deploy popular technologies to AWS in minutes. They use infrastructure as code to provision production
environments on AWS that might require hundreds of discreet procedures to deploy manually. In addition to the
efficiency they offer, Quick Starts have an often overlooked but critical aspect: they’re open source and
modular. That’s what makes them customizable.
AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM)
The AWS SAM is a toolkit for building and running serverless applications on AWS. AWS SAM consists of two
parts: AWS SAM templates and the AWS SAM Command Line Interface (AWS SAM CLI). AWS SAM templates
provide a shorthand syntax that is optimized for defining infrastructure as code for serverless applications. An
extension of CloudFormation, you deploy AWS SAM templates directly to CloudFormation, benefiting from its
extensive IaC support on AWS. The AWS SAM CLI is a developer tool that you can use to quickly create, develop,
=== Page 20 ===
and deploy serverless applications.
AWS Amplify
Amplify is a service that helps you build full-stack web and mobile applications in hours. Amplify
consists of a set of tools and services to accelerate the development of mobile and web applications
on AWS. The Amplify open source framework includes a set of libraries with strong conventions and
best practices, UI components, and a CLI to build an application backend and integrate it with your
iOS, Android, Web, and React Native application. The framework leverages a core set of AWS Cloud
services to offer capabilities including offline data, authentication, analytics, push notifications, and
bots at high scale. Amplify also offers a fully managed web application and static website hosting
service to host your frontend web application, create and delete backend environments, and set up
continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) on the front end and backend. Behind the
scenes, Amplify deployments build CloudFormation stacks.
AWS Cloud Development Kit (AWS CDK)
The AWS CDK is an open source software development framework for defining cloud infrastructure
as code. The AWS CDK uses modern programming languages and deploys through CloudFormation.
You can use the AWS CDK to build reliable, scalable, cost-effective applications in the cloud and to
author AWS CDK projects, which are applied to generate CloudFormation templates.
You can run AWS CDK projects by using the AWS CDK command line interface (CLI) or in a
continuous delivery system. You can use the AWS CDK CLI to list the stacks defined in your AWS CDK
application and synthesize the stacks into CloudFormation templates. You then deploy the stacks to
any public AWS Region.
=== Page 21 ===
Key takeaways: • IaC is the process of provisioning and
Using infrastructure managing your cloud resources by writing
as code a template file.
• IaC rapidly deploys complex
environments, and you can build or
update the same complex environments
repeatedly.
• Choose an IaC solution based on your use
case, relative balance of convenience and
control, and the skills of your team.
• CloudFormation is an IaC service to help
you create, update, and delete services
and architectures.
=== Page 22 ===
Customizing with
CloudFormation
Automating Your Architecture
This section provides an overview of CloudFormation and customization a CloudFormation template.
=== Page 23 ===
How CloudFormation works
1 2 4
Define your resources Upload the template to The stack retains control
ina template, or use a CloudFormation, or of the resources that are
prebuilttemplate. point to a template created. You can later
stored inan Amazon 3 update stack, detect
Simple Storage Service Run a create stackaction. drift, or delete stack.
(Amazon S3)bucket.
Resources are created across
multiple services in your AWS
account as a running environment.
This diagram demonstrates how CloudFormation works. First, you define the AWS resources that you want to
create. In this example, it creates a few EC2 instances, a load balancer, an Auto Scaling group, and an Amazon
Route 53 hosted zone. You define the resources in a CloudFormation template. You can create the template
from scratch, or you can use a prebuilt template. Many sample templates are also available.
CloudFormation offers broad support for AWS services. However, in some cases where the exact feature that
you want is not available, you can invoke an AWS Lambda function during the stack build that calls the AWS SDK
to reach full service API coverage.
Next, you upload the template to CloudFormation. Alternatively, you can store the template on Amazon S3 and
point CloudFormation to the location where it is stored.
Third, you run the create stack action. When you do this, the CloudFormation service reads through what is
specified in the template and creates the desired resources in your AWS account. A single stack can create and
configure resources in a single Region across multiple AWS services.
Finally, you can observe the progress of the stack-creation process. After the stack has successfully completed,
the AWS resources that it created exist in your account. The stack object remains, and it acts like a handle to all
the resources that it created. This is helpful when you want to take actions later. For example, you might want
to update the stack (to create additional AWS resources or modify existing resources) or delete the stack (which
will clean up and delete the resources that were created by the stack). When deleting a stack, you can
determine which items to keep when the stack is deleted.
For a full list of resources supported by CloudFormation, see “AWS Resource and Property Types” in the
CloudFormation User Guide. A link is provided in your course resources.
=== Page 24 ===
CloudFormation template syntax
Template
YAML example JSON example
AWSTemplateFormatVersion: 2010-09-09 {
Resources: "AWSTemplateFormatVersion": "2010-09-09",
awsexamplebucket1: "Resources" : {
Type: AWS::S3::Bucket “awsexamplebucket1" : {
"Type" : "AWS::S3::Bucket"
YAML advantages JSON advantages
• Is optimized for readability • More widely used by other computer systems
• Is less verbose (for example, APIs)
• Supports embedded comments • Usually less complex to generate and parse
A CloudFormation template can be authored in either JSON or YAML.
YAML is optimized for readability. The same data that is stored in JSON will take fewer lines to store in YAML
because YAML does not use braces ({}), and it uses fewer quotation marks (“”). Another advantage of YAML is
that it natively supports embedded comments. Debugging YAML documents can be less complicated compared
with JSON because of the human-readable format. With JSON, it can be difficult to track down missing or
misplaced commas or braces. YAML does not have this issue.
Despite the many advantages of YAML, JSON offers some unique advantages. First, it is widely used by
computer systems. Its ubiquity is an advantage because data that is stored in JSON can reliably be used with
many systems without needing transformation. It is usually less complex to generate and parse JSON than it is
to generate and parse YAML. Additionally, you can add comments to a CloudFormation template in JSON, which
requires the used of the metadata attribute in the CloudFormation template.
You should choose the language that best suits your use case, business needs, and your experience. Choose
YAML for a more human-readable format and JSON for cross compatibility. Ultimately, the decision will be
between you and your organization.
It is recommended that you treat templates as source code and store them in a code repository.
Recall that templates can also be authored in AWS CloudFormation Designer (Designer), a graphical design
interface in the AWS Management Console that can be used to author or view the contents of CloudFormation
templates. It can also be used to convert a valid JSON template to YAML or to convert YAML to JSON. It provides
a drag-and-drop interface for authoring templates that can be output as either JSON or YAML.
For more information, see “What’s the Difference Between YAML and JSON” on the content resources page of
your online course.
=== Page 25 ===
Anatomy of a CloudFormation template
---
• When you write a CloudFormation template AWSTemplateFormatVersion: "version date"
you have a choice of sections to include based Description:
String
on your workload.
Metadata:
template metadata
• The only required section is Resources.
Parameters:
Additional sections are optional.
set of parameters
Rules:
• This example shows a YAML-formatted set of rules
template fragment in the suggested order of Mappings:
sections. set of mappings
Conditions:
set of conditions
Transform:
set of transforms
Resources:
set of resources
Outputs:
set of outputs
When you write a CloudFormation template, you have a choice of sections to include based on your workload.
A CloudFormation template includes several major sections. The Resources section is the only required section.
Although a fixed order of sections is not required, as you build your template, it can be helpful to use the logical
order because values in one section might refer to values from a previous section. The following is a suggested
order:
• Format Version: This section provides the CloudFormation template version that the template conforms to.
The template format version isn't the same as the API or Web Services Description Language (WSDL) version.
The template format version can change independently of the API and WSDL versions.
• Description: This section includes a text string that describes the template. This section must always follow
the template Format Version section.
• Metadata: This section includes objects that provide additional information about the template.
• Parameters: This section includes values to pass to your template at runtime (when you create or update a
stack.
• Rules: This section validates a parameter or a combination of parameters passed to a template during a stack
creation or stack update.
• Mappings: This section includes a mapping of keys and associated values that you can use to specify
conditional parameter values, similar to a lookup table.
• Conditions: This section includes conditions that control whether certain resources are created or whether
certain resource properties are assigned a value during stack creation or update.
• Transform: For serverless applications, the Transform section specifies the version of the AWS SAM to use.
When you specify a transform, you can use AWS SAM syntax to declare resources in your template.
• Resources (required): This section specifies the stack resources and their properties, such as an EC2 instance
or an S3 bucket.
• Outputs: This section describes the values that are returned whenever you view your stack's properties.
For a full review of the anatomy of a CloudFormation template, see “Template Anatomy.” A link is provided in
your course resources.
=== Page 26 ===
Resources template: Create an EC2 instance
"Resources": {
"Ec2Instance": {
"Type": "AWS::EC2::Instance",
Resources define what needs to be created in
"Properties": {
the AWS account (all you need).
"ImageId": "ami-9d23aeea",
"InstanceType": "m3.medium",
"KeyName": {"Ref": "KeyPair}
}},
"Outputs": {
"InstanceId": { Outputs specify the values returned after
"Description": "InstanceId", the stack is created.
"Value": {"Ref": "Ec2Instance"}
This example CloudFormation template creates an EC2 instance. Although this example does not illustrate all
possible sections of a template, it does highlight some of the most commonly used sections, including
Resources and Outputs.
The Resources section is required for any template. Use it to specify the AWS resources to create, as well as
their properties. In this example, a resource of type AWS::EC2::Instance is specified, which creates an EC2
instance. The example resource includes both statically defined properties (ImageIdand InstanceType) and a
reference to the KeyPairparameter. Examples include creating all components of a virtual private cloud (VPC) in
a Region and then creating EC2 instances in the VPC.
The example shows the Outputs section, which describe the values that are returned when you view your
stack's properties. In the example, an InstanceId output is declared. After the stack is created, you can see this
value in the stack details in the CloudFormation console by running the aws cloudformation describe-
stacksAWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) command or by using the AWS SDKs to retrieve this value. An
example use is returning the instance ID or the public IP address of an EC2 instance.
=== Page 27 ===
AWS CloudFormation Designer (Designer)
Designer is a graphic tool for creating, viewing, and modifying CloudFormation templates. With Designer, you
can diagram your template resources by using a drag-and-drop interface and then edit their details by using the
integrated JSON and YAML editor. Designer can help you quickly see the interrelationship between a template's
resources and modify templates. With Designer, you can see graphic representations of the resources in your
template. It also simplifies template authoring and simplifies template editing.
Designer has several components. The following are the panes and main components:
1. The toolbarprovides quick access to commands for common actions, such as opening and saving templates,
undoing or redoing changes, creating a stack, and validating your template. You can also download the
diagram as an image, get help, or refresh the diagram in the canvas pane.
2. TheResource typespane lists all the template resources that you can add to your template, categorized by
their AWS service name. You add resources by dragging them from theResource typespane to the canvas.
Designer can display only CloudFormation supported resource types. It cannot display other entities, such as
Availability Zones or the resources of a nested stack.
3. Thecanvaspane displays your template resources as a diagram. You use it to add or remove resources,
create relationships between resources, and arrange their layout. The changes that you make in
thecanvasautomatically modify the template's JSON or YAML.
4. The fit-to-window button resizes thecanvaspane to fit your template's diagram.
5. The full screen and split screen buttons select different views of Designer. You can select a full-screen view
of the canvas, a full-screen view of theIntegrated JSON and YAML editor, or a split-screen view of the
canvas and editor.
6. In the integrated JSON and YAML editor panel, you specify the details of your template, such as resource
properties or template parameters. When you select an item in thecanvas, Designer highlights the related
JSON or YAML in the editor. After editing the JSON or YAML, you must refresh the canvasto update the
diagram.
7. When you convert a template from JSON to YAML or do the reverse, theMessagespane displays a success
or failure message. When you open, validate, or attempt to create a stack with an invalid template,
theMessagespane displays validation errors.
=== Page 28 ===
Using conditions
Conditions provisioned:
• Two Availability Zones in
the production
environment
• One Availability Zone in
the development
environment
This was done using the same
template.
You can use the same CloudFormation template to create both yourproduction environment and development
environment. This approach can help ensure that (for example) the same application binaries, same Java
version, and same database version are used in both development and production. Thus, the template can help
ensure that your application behaves in production the same way that it behaved in the development
environment.
In the example, you see that both the production and development environments are created from the same
template. However, the production environment is configured to run across two Availability Zones, and the
development environment runs in a single Availability Zone. These kinds of deployment-specific differences can
be accomplished by using conditions. You can use a conditionsstatement in CloudFormation templates to help
ensure that development, test, and production environments—though they are different in size and scope—are
otherwise configured identically.
You might need several testing environments for functional testing, user acceptance testing, and load testing.
Having different test environments gives multiple developers the ability to work on tests without compromising
each other’s data. Having multiple test environments also gives you the ability to test different issues
independently. Creating those environments manually is risky.However, creating them with CloudFormation
helps ensure consistency and repeatability.
=== Page 29 ===
CloudFormation change sets
You can use change sets to preview changes before you implement them.
Use the DeletionPolicyattribute to preserve or back up a resource when its stack is deleted or updated.
One way to update a stack (and thus update your AWS resources) is to update the CloudFormation template
that you used to create the stack and then run the Update Stack option.
However, before you actually run an update, you might want to gain additional insight about the specific
changes that CloudFormation will implement if you run that command. If you want this type of insight, you can
use a change set.
By using change sets, you can preview the changes, verify that they align with your expectations, and then
approve the updates before you proceed.
Follow this basic workflow to use CloudFormation change sets:
1. Create a change set by submitting changes for the stack that you want to update.
2. View the change set to see which stack settings and resources will change. If you want to consider other
changes before you decide which changes to make, create additional change sets.
3. Run the change set. CloudFormation updates your stack with those changes.
If you use change sets, you might want to set a deletion policy on some resources. You can use the
DeletionPolicy attribute to preserve (or, in some cases, back up) a resource when its stack is deleted or updated.
If a resource has no DeletionPolicy attribute, CloudFormation deletes the resource.
For a full review of CloudFormation change sets, see “Updating Stacks Using Change Sets.” A link is provided in
your course resources.
=== Page 30 ===
Drift detection
Scenario
1. An application environment is
created by a CloudFormation
stack.
2. Later, someone manually
modifies the security groupand
opens a new inbound TCP port.
3. Drift detection is run on the stack.
4. All resources except the security
group show the result IN_SYNC,
but the security group shows a
status of MODIFIED with details.
Consider this scenario: an application environment is created by running a CloudFormation stack. Then,
someone decides to manually modify the deployed environment settings. They create a new inbound rule in the
security group that was created by the stack. However, they make this change outside the context of
CloudFormation—for example, by using the Amazon EC2 console. As the architect of this application, you would
want to know that your deployed environment no longer matches the model environment that is defined in the
CloudFormation template.
How would you know which resources were modified so that they no longer exactly conform with the
specifications in the stack?
Drift detection can be run on a stack by choosing Detect Drift from the Stack actions menu in the console.
Performing drift detection on a stack shows you whether the stack has drifted from its expected template
configuration. Drift detection returns detailed information about the drift status of each resource that supports
drift detection in the stack.
When you delete a stack that has drift, the drift is not handled by the CloudFormation resource cleanup
process. If the stack has unresolved resource dependencies, they might cause the delete stack action to fail. In
such cases, you might need to manually resolve the issue.
For a list of resources that support drift detection, see “Resources That Support Import and Drift Detection
Operations.” A link is provided in your course resources.
=== Page 31 ===
Scoping and organizing templates
Category Type of Template
Frontend services Web interfaces, mobile access, and analytics dashboard
Backend services Search, payments, reviews, and recommendations
Shared services Customer relationship management (CRM) databases,
common monitoring, alarms, subnets, and security groups
Network VPCs, internet gateways, virtual private networks (VPNs), and NAT devices
Security AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) policies, users, groups, and roles
As your organization starts to use more CloudFormation templates, it will be important for you to have a
strategy for templates. This strategy will define the scope of what a single template should create and the
general characteristics that would make you want to define your AWS infrastructure in more than one template.
The table offers some ideas about how you might organize your templates so that they can be maintained and
so that they can be used in combination with each other in a way that makes sense. A good strategy is to group
your resource definitions in templates similar to the way that you would organize the functionality of a large
enterprise application into different parts.
Think about the more tightly connected components of your infrastructure, and consider putting them in the
same templates. In this example, CloudFormation templates are scoped to create and maintain AWS resources
in one of five areas: frontend services, backend services, shared services, network, and security. In each area,
you might maintain a template that is scoped to a single application or a single department's needs.
You can also consider using nested stacks. Nested stacks are created as part of other stacks. As your
infrastructure grows, common patterns can emerge in which you declare the same components in multiple
templates. You can separate out these common components and create dedicated templates for them. Then
use the resource in your template to reference other templates, creating nested stacks.
Regardless of how you organize and scope each CloudFormation template, treat your templates as code that
needs version control. Store your templates in a source control system.
For more information on nested stacks, see “Working with Nested Stacks.” A link is provided in your course
resources.
=== Page 32 ===
Demo: Analyzing an • This demo uses CloudFormation.
AWS CloudFormation
• In this demonstration, you examine a
Template
CloudFormation template and analyze the
template in depth.
In this demonstration, you examine a CloudFormation template and analyze the template in depth.
=== Page 33 ===
Demo: AWS • This demo uses CloudFormation and AWS
CloudFormation Quick Starts.
Resources
• In this demonstration, you are introduced
to CloudFormation and the resources
available for creating CloudFormation
templates.
In this demonstration, you are introduced to the details of CloudFormation, and you will see how to simplify
your infrastructure management by using the ideas of infrastructure as code. This demo also introduces
resources for creating CloudFormation templates.
=== Page 34 ===
Demo: Reviewing an • This demo uses CloudFormation.
AWS CloudFormation
• In this demonstration, you review the
Template
changes that you make to a
CloudFormation template.
In this demonstration, you review the changes that you make to a CloudFormation template.
=== Page 35 ===
Demo: Using the AWS • This demo uses CloudFormation.
CloudFormation
• In this demonstration, you learn how to
Console
use the CloudFormation console.
In this demonstration, you learn how to use the CloudFormation console. You review concepts of Designer and
drift detection. You also learn how to clean things up when you’re finished so that you don’t incur any
unnecessary charges.
=== Page 36 ===
Key takeaways: • CloudFormation is an IaC service that you
Customizing with can use to model, create, and manage a
CloudFormation collection of AWS resources.
• CloudFormation IaC is defined in
templates that are authored in JSON or
YAML.
• A stack is what you create when you use a
template to create AWS resources.
• Actions that are available on an existing
stack include update stack, detect drift,
and delete stack.
=== Page 37 ===
Using AWS Quick Starts
Automating Your Architecture
This section introduces AWS Quick Starts for automating deployments to the AWS Cloud.
=== Page 38 ===
AWS Quick Starts
• Are gold-standard deployments
• Are based on AWS best practices for security
and high availability
• Can be used to create entire architectures in
less than an hour
AWS Quick Starts
• Can be used for experimentation and as the
basis for your own architectures
AWS Quick Starts provide CloudFormation templates for full solutions. The Quick Starts are built by AWS
solutions architects and partners to help you deploy popular solutions on AWS based on AWS best practices for
security and high availability. These reference deployments can be provisioned in your AWS account in less than
an hour and often in only minutes. They help you build well-architected test or production environments in a
few steps. You can use them to create entire architectures, or you can use them to experiment with new
deployment approaches.
Quick Starts use infrastructure as code with CloudFormation as the foundation. This helps you to use
CloudFormation to provision architectures without having to build your own template.
For more information, see AWS Quick Startson the content resources page. A link is provided in your course
resources.
=== Page 39 ===
How to use AWS Quick Starts
Each Quick Start consists of a CloudFormation template and a deployment guide. The guide provides details
about deployment options and how to configure the deployment to match your needs. The guide also provides
information about the security considerations and estimated costs for the deployment. You can customize the
deployment to match your needs and create the stack. Depending on the AWS resources that must be created,
the Quick Start will finish deploying in a matter of minutes or a few hours.
Even if you do not use the Quick Starts, you may find it helpful to look at a few of them to see the types of
patternsand practicesthat the Quick Starts follow. You might find that they help accelerate your own template
development when you borrow a section of a Quick Start and embed it in your own template.
AWS Marketplace Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) are another solution that people sometimes use. These
resources can be launched from the Amazon EC2 console. AWS Marketplace AMIs provide single-vendor
solutions that run on EC2 instances. In contrast, AWS Quick Starts are modular and more customizable solutions
that might (or might not) use Amazon EC2.
=== Page 40 ===
AWS Quick Starts example
This architecture is an example of an AWS Quick Start that you can deploy in less than an hour. This solution
creates a serverless architecture to initiate cost-effective image processing in the AWS Cloud. This solution gives
you dynamic content delivery on an interactive web interface with content moderation and smart image
cropping with Amazon Rekognition.
You might implement an architecture like this if you are trying to maintain high-quality images on your websites
and mobile applications:
1. The CloudFormation template deploys an Amazon CloudFront distribution that provides a caching layer to
reduce the cost of image processing and the latency of subsequent image delivery. The CloudFront domain
name provides cached access to the image handler API.
2. Amazon API Gateway provides endpoint resources and initiates the Lambda function.
3. A Lambda function retrieves the image from a customer’s existing S3 bucket and uses open source image
processing software to return a modified version of the image to API Gateway.
4. An S3 bucket is used for log storage. This is a separate bucket from the S3 bucket for storing images.
5. If you activate the Image URL signature feature, the Lambda function retrieves the secret value from your
existing AWS Secrets Managersecret to validate the signature
6. You can use Amazon Rekognition to analyze your image and return the results if you use the smart crop or
content moderation features.
For more information about this example, see Serverless Image Handler in the AWS Solutions Library. A link is
provided in your course resources.
=== Page 41 ===
Key takeaways: • AWS Quick Starts provide CloudFormation
templates built by solutions architects and
Using AWS Quick
partners that reflect AWS best practices.
Starts
• AWS Quick Starts consists of a CloudFormation
template and a deployment guide, which provide
details about deployment options and ways to
configure the deployment to match your needs.
• AWS Quick Starts can also help you see patterns
and practices to accelerate your own template
development.
=== Page 42 ===
Customizing with Amazon Q
Developer
Automating Your Architecture
This section is an introduction to Amazon Q Developer. Amazon Q Developer helps you improve developer
productivity by providing code recommendations based on developers’ natural comments and prior code.
=== Page 43 ===
Challenges of writing infrastructure as code
Size and complexity of Security
Human error Differing skill levels
templates vulnerabilities
Consider opening with a discussion starting with the question, “What are the challenges that you have faced in
learning to write code?” Lead the discussion around the challenges that the students have faced and the
challenges listed on the slide.
Writing code can be challenging, especially when you begin work as a developer.
Human error: Code is written by humans, and humans can introduce errors in the code. These errors might be
made when performing familiar tasks, when you apply an incorrect action, or when you forget to complete a
step. Errors can be hard to find, especially when the actions are correct but not for the programming goals.
Differing skill levels: Developers have different skill levels and coding styles. The most effective developers are
problem solvers, a skill that grows as you practice. As a newer developer, you might choose more intricate code
than is necessary. As your skills grow, you may start to write code that considers how to create, maintain, and
administer. The goal of a programmer is to tackle the problem to find a workable solution. Technologies are
tools to address the challenges.
Size and complexity of templates: Writing a template to describe all resources in detail for even a basic three-
tier architecture quickly becomes complex. Even when you have an existing template or Quick Start, you can get
lost in the details.
Security vulnerabilities: Security is a top priority when developing software. One of the problems that new
developers face is overlooking security when writing code. A focus on delivering error-free code rather than
checking to see if it is secure can lead to unintended security vulnerabilities.
=== Page 44 ===
Amazon Q Developer
•Generative AI-powered coding assistant
•Designed for developers and IT professionals
•Generates code and helps you understand,
build, extend, and operate AWS applications
Amazon Q Developer •Scan code for security vulnerabilities
•Secure and private by design
To alleviate some of the challenges with writing code, AWS introduced Amazon Q Developer. Amazon Q
Developer is a coding assistant that those without extensive experience can use. It is trained on years of high-
quality AWS examples and documentation. It can also be trained on your company’s code and systems. Amazon
Q Developer can chat about code, provide in-line code completions, generate new code, and scan your code for
security vulnerabilities. It can also make code upgrades and improvements, such as language updates,
debugging, and optimizations. With Amazon Q Developer, you can describe the application you want to create
in natural language, and Amazon Q Developer will generate and suggest code for the application. You can build
applications without needing to write all code yourself. The no-code approach of Amazon Q Developer can be
particularly useful for creating simple web applications, automating business processes, or building prototypes
and proofs of concept.
For more information, see “Getting Started” in the AWS Amazon Q Developer User Guideon the content
resources page of your online course.
=== Page 45 ===
Amazon Q Developer supports you across the software
development lifecycle (SDLC)
Maintain and
Plan Create Test and secure Operate
modernize
•Ask questions and •Receive in-line code •Generate unit tests. •Troubleshoot errors. •Modernize code
get referenceable recommendations for with Amazon Q
•Scan project code •Troubleshoot
and contextual multiple languages. Developer Agent for
for security network
guidance. code
•Implement features vulnerabilities and connectivity with
transformation.
•Explain code with through comments or get remediation VPC Reachability
conversational code prompts. suggestions. Analyzer.
coding.
•Chat in your integrated
development
environment (IDE).
Amazon Q supports developers across the software development lifecycle (SDLC) phases in several ways.
• Plan: You can use Amazon Q in the AWS Management Console to ask questions, receive best practices and
recommendations, optimize Amazon Elastic Cloud Compute (EC2) instances, and learn more about the Well-
Architected Framework. In the integrated development environment (IDE), Amazon Q can help you
understand your code base and get up to speed on projects.
• Create: Amazon Q helps improve development productivity through in-line code recommendations directly in
your IDE or command line interface (CLI), using natural language to generate new features. You can ask
Amazon Q questions without leaving the IDE. The in-line code recommendations are available for multiple
coding languages. For more information, see “Supported languages for Amazon Q Developer in the IDE” at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/q-language-ide-support.html.
• Test and secure:Amazon Q helps you confirm that your code is working and secure through unit test
assistance. It helps you to find and fix security vulnerabilities earlier in the development cycle.
• Operate: Amazon Q can help troubleshoot errors, for example, in AWS Lambda, Amazon EC2, and Amazon
Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS). You can analyze your VPC reachability and get better debug and
optimization tips.
• Maintain and modernize:Amazon Q Developer Agent for code transformation helps you maintain and
modernize code by upgrading projects to more up-to-date language versions.
For more information, see “Accelerate your Software Development Lifecycle with Amazon Q” in the AWS
DevOps Blogat https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/accelerate-your-software-development-lifecycle-with-
amazon-q/.
=== Page 46 ===
Example: Using Amazon Q Developer with
CloudFormation
Amazon Q Developer The accepted code
makes suggestions that snippet is added into the
the developer can accept template
Developer types the start
of a desired resource
within a YAML file
Amazon Q Developer can help you modify a CloudFormation template. When modifying a stack template, you
can use Amazon Q Developer to write, modify, or delete code. Amazon Q Developer generates suggestions in
either YAML or JSON to fit seamlessly into your CloudFormation template.
Amazon Q Developer also helps you write Lambda functions for a CloudFormation stack. Once activated in the
Lambda console, Amazon Q Developer can make code recommendations on demand in the Lambda code editor
as you develop your function
=== Page 47 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon Q Developer is a generative AI
Customizing with coding tool that you can use to generate
Amazon Q real-time code suggestions.
Developer
• Amazon Q Developer can offer
suggestions for writing CloudFormation
templates.
=== Page 48 ===
Guided lab: Automating Infrastructure
Deployment with AWS CloudFormation
(CloudFormation lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and the lab environment
provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 49 ===
CloudFormation • In this lab, you perform the following
main tasks:
lab tasks:
• Use AWS CloudFormation to deploy a virtual
private cloud (VPC) networking layer
• Use AWS CloudFormation to deploy an
application layer that references the
networking layer
• Explore templates with AWS CloudFormation
Designer
• Delete a stack that has a deletion policy
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 50 ===
Debrief: CloudFormation deployment lab
• What was a best practice that you learned when using
CloudFormation to deploy a layered architecture?
• When the CloudFormation stack was created for your VPC, which
two outputs did the stack create?
It is a best practice to deploy infrastructure in layers. The following are common layers:
• The ID of the public subnet that was created
• The ID of the VPC that was created
=== Page 51 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to automation
Automating Your Architecture
This section is an overview of applying the AWS Well-Architected Framework to automation.
=== Page 52 ===
AWS Well-Architected Framework automation best practices
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module.
Find the complete set of best practices by pillar on the Well-Architected Framework website. A link is provided
in the content resources section of your online course.
=== Page 53 ===
Best practice approach: Prepare – design for operations
Best practices
Perform operations as code.
Make frequent, small,
reversible changes.
Fully automate integration
and deployment.
Automating operations is an important best practice under operational excellence pillar. As you learned in this
module, automating with infrastructure as code improves the flow of development and maintains consistency
with changes going into production. In AWS, you can view your entire workload (applications, infrastructure,
policy, governance, and operations) as code. Your workload can be defined and updated by using code. This
means you can apply the same engineering discipline that you use for application code to every element of your
stack.
Perform operations as code: One of the operational excellence best practices is to perform operations as code.
In the cloud, you can apply the same engineering discipline that you use for application code to your entire
environment. You can define your entire workload as code and update it with code. You can script your
operations procedures and automate when they run by invoking them in response to events. By performing
operations as code, you limit human error and enable consistent responses to events.
Make frequent, small, reversible changes: Another operational excellence design principle is to make frequent,
small, reversible changes. You should design workloads to enable regular updates to components so that you
can increase the flow of beneficial changes into your workload. Making changes in small increments that can be
reversed will help you if the change isn’t beneficial or introduces other errors. This results in more effective
troubleshooting and faster remediation with the option to roll back changes.
Fully automate integration and deployment: Developers can use automation tools to deliver code and move
code to production. With automation for integration and deployment, there is a full audit trail of changes and
configurations that should meet the needs of governance and compliance. Processes that are repeatable can be
standardized across teams leaving developers free to focus on development, increasing productivity.
For more information, see the Operational Excellence Pillar whitepaper in the course resources page for more
information.
=== Page 54 ===
Best practice approach: Security
Best practices
Automate security best
practices.
The security pillar describes how to take advantage of cloud technologies to protect data, systems, and assets in
a way that can improve your security posture.
Automate security best practices:You can automate security at many different levels. Automated software-
based security mechanisms improve your ability to securely scale more rapidly and cost-effectively. This helps
you create secure architectures, including the implementation of controls that are defined and managed as
code in version-controlled templates. Automate identification and classification to implement correct controls.
Using automation for this instead of direct access from a person reduces the risk of human error and exposure.
In this module, you learned about CloudFormation, which is a key service in automating. When deploying
CloudFormation templates, ensure that security has been considered at every step so that automation best
practices can help keep your workload secure.
For more information, see the Security Pillar whitepaper in the course resources page for more information.
=== Page 55 ===
Best practices approach: Change management – implement change
Best practices
Deploy changes
with automation.
Use automation when
obtaining or scaling resources.
The reliability pillar encompasses the ability of a workload to perform its intended function correctly and
consistently when it’s expected to. This includes the ability to operate and test the workload through its total
lifecycle.Making changes to production systems is one of the largest risk areas for many organizations. You
need to be able to make controlled changes to a system to deploy new functionality and to ensure that
workloads and operating environment are running properly patched software. If these changes are
uncontrolled, then it is difficult to predict the effect of these changes or to address issues that arise because of
them. You learned in this module that using infrastructure as code gives you the ability to deploy changes with
automation and reduce the chance of human error.
Deploy changes with automation: In this module, you have learned that manual approaches create risks for an
organization. To avoid manual approaches, changes to your infrastructure should be done via automation where
possible. It is a best practice to use automation wherever it’s practical, such as for testing and deploying
changes, adding or removing capacity, and migrating data.
Use automation when obtaining or scaling resources:When replacing impaired resources or scaling your
workload, automate the process by using managed AWS services, such as Amazon S3 and AWS Auto Scaling.
You can also use third-party tools and AWS SDKs to automate scaling. Managed AWS services include Amazon
S3, CloudFront, AWS Auto Scaling, Lambda, Amazon DynamoDB, AWS Fargate, and Route53.
In this module, you learned about CloudFormation and the ability to implement changes to the CloudFormation
template that can be rolled out consistently to the stacks. This is a way to manage change by using automation.
For more information, see the Reliability Pillar whitepaper in the course resources page for more information.
=== Page 56 ===
Best practices approach: Optimize over time – automating operations
Best practices
Perform automation for
operations.
Cost optimization is a continual process of refinement and improvement over the span of a workload’s
lifecycle.You should build and operate cost-aware workloads that achieve business outcomes while minimizing
costs. As you learned in this module, automating operations reduces the time and effort for admin tasks,
deployment, and other operations. When considering automation, evaluate the required time and cost for the
effort of operations and reduce the human effort where possible. Having fewer manual tasks improves
efficiency and benefits enterprises by delivering a consistent and reliable experience when deploying,
administering, or operating workloads.
Perform automation for operations: Automating operations is an important best practice under the cost
optimization pillar for minimizing costs and helping your organization maximize its return on investment.Start
by prioritizing your operations based on required effort by looking at overall operations cost in the cloud. By
using AWS services, tools, or third-party products, you can choose which AWS automations to implement and
customize for your specific requirements. You can free up infrastructure resources from manual operational
tasks and use them for higher value tasks and innovations, thereby improving business outcomes.
Look at the total cost of human actions by factoring in the cost of operations and management. Prioritize
automations for administrative tasks to reduce the human effort. Prioritize automating repetitive, high-value
activities. Activities that pose a higher risk of human error are typically the better place to start automating
because the risk often poses an unwanted additional operational cost.
For more information, see the Cost Optimization Pillar whitepaper in the course resources page for more
information.
=== Page 57 ===
Key takeaways: • Best practices related to automating your
Applying Well- architecture include the following:
Architected • Perform operations as code.
Framework
• Make frequent, small, reversible
principles changes.
• Fully automate integration and
deployment.
• Automate security best practices.
• Deploy changes with automation.
• Use automation when obtaining or
scaling resources.
• Perform automation for operations.
=== Page 58 ===
Café lab: Automating Infrastructure
Deployment (Café deployment lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and the lab environment
provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 59 ===
The evolving café architecture: version 7
Architecture
Business reason for update Technical requirements/ architecture update
Version
V1 Create a static website for a small Host the website on Amazon S3.
business.
V2 Add online ordering. Deploy the web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce the effort to maintain the Separate the web and database layers. Migrate the database
database and secure its data. to Amazon RDS on a private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon VPC features to configure and secure public and
application. private subnets.
V5 Create separate access mechanisms Add IAM groups and attach resource polices to application
based on role. resources. Add IAM users to groups based on role.
V6 Ensure that the website can handle Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
an expected increase in traffic. instances, and distribute compute and database instances
across two Availability Zones.
V7 Deploy the website in a repeatable
way.
V8 Module 14 info
The café’s business has been steadily increasing. Sofía and Nikhil have become friends with a few of the café
regulars, who are AWS consultants, and they have started to discuss the café’s current architecture. Olivia, one
of the regulars and an AWS solutions architect, identified a need for the café’s online business to scale. Scaling
will require additional servers to run the online ordering application, but the current subnet size is too small and
can’t support this growth. Therefore, they will need to rearchitect some aspects of the network that the
application runs in.
On further review of the café’s architecture, Olivia also noticed a vulnerability: the TCP port that’s used to
administer the application server is accessible to the internet. Sofía explained that she and Nikhil must be able
to manage and maintain the server. Olivia advises them to set up a bastion host to reduce public access to the
server and to make it more secure.
In this lab, you will update the café architecture to enhance the security of the web application by using Amazon
Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) features to configure private and public subnets. This café lab creates
version 4 of the café architecture.
=== Page 60 ===
Café deployment • In this lab, you will do the following:
lab tasks
• Deploy a virtual private cloud (VPC) networking
layer by using an AWS CloudFormation
template
• Deploy an application layer by using an AWS
CloudFormation template
• Use Git to invoke AWS CodePipeline, and to
create or update stacks from templates that are
stored in a code repository
• Use AWS CloudFormation to conditionally build
different infrastructures based on
environmental variables
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 61 ===
Debrief: Café deployment lab
• Where did you store versions of the AWS CloudFormation templates
in this lab?
• What did you have to do before you duplicated your application
layer template to the Oregon Region?
=== Page 62 ===
Module wrap-up
Automating Your Architecture
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 63 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Recognize when to use architecture automation and why.
• Identify how infrastructure as code (IaC) as a strategy for provisioning and
managing cloud resources.
• Identify how to model, create, and manage a collection of AWS resources by
using AWS CloudFormation.
• Identify how to use AWS Quick Start CloudFormation templates to set up an
architecture.
• Identify uses of Amazon Q Developer.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing
automation.
=== Page 64 ===
Considerations for the cafe
• Discuss how the café lab in this module
answered the key questions and decisions
presented at the start of this module for the
café business.
Use the café business as an example to apply what you’ve learned in this module to building a cloud
architecture.
=== Page 65 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 66 ===
Sample exam question
Consider a situation where you want to create a single AWS CloudFormation template that is capable of creating both a
production environment that spans two Availability Zones and a development environment that exists in a single Availability
Zone. Which optional section of the CloudFormation template will you want to make use of to configure the logic that will
support this?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• A single AWS CloudFormation template
• An environment with two Availability Zones and an environment with a single Availability Zone
• Optional section
The main driver for the solution is that you want a single template that can be used to deploy both a single and
a two Availability Zone environment.
=== Page 67 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
Consider a situation where you want to create a single AWS CloudFormation template that is capable of creating both a
production environment that spans two Availability Zones, and a development environment that exists in a single Availability
Zone. Which optional section of the CloudFormation template will you want to make use of to configure the logic that will
support this?
Choice Response
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 68 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is A.
Choice Response
A Conditions
Choice B (Outputs) is not a section that can affect how many AWS resources will be deployed by the template
when the stack is run.
Choice C (Resources) is not an optional section of a CloudFormation template.
Choice D (Description) is not a section that will affect the configuration.
Choice A (Conditions) meets the requirement. The Conditions section is the optional section of a
CloudFormation template that defines the circumstances under which entities are created or configured.
=== Page 69 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.