# Clean Text Extracted from: 12.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:13
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 12 Student Guide
Version 3.0.0
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 12: Caching Content 4
=== Page 4 ===
Caching Content
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Caching Content module. This module introduces two AWS services for caching
data: Amazon CloudFront and Amazon ElastiCache.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Caching Content
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the
objectives following:
• Identify how caching content can improve
application performance and reduce latency.
• Identify how to use Amazon CloudFront to
deliver content by using edge locations
protection.
• Create architectures that use CloudFront to
cache content.
• Describe how to use Amazon ElastiCache for
database caching.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing caching strategies.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Knowledge checks
• Overview of caching • 10-question knowledge check
• Caching using CloudFront • Sample exam question
• Caching using ElastiCache
• Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to caching
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a
sample exam question to discuss in class.
The next slide describes the lab in this module.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab
• Streaming Dynamic Content Using Amazon CloudFront
This module includes the lab listed. The lab section of the student guide includes additional
information about the lab, and the lab environment provides detailed instructions.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to determine when and how to
designing content provide a faster way for my customers to
caching: access content so that I can balance
performance, cost, and data freshness to
meet evolving business requirements.
• I need to incorporate a content delivery
network (CDN) service in my architecture
designs so that I can distribute static
content securely and efficiently.
• I need to select an in-memory caching
strategy so that I can reduce network
latency and offload database pressure.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to
approach caching content. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this
module, remembering that the cloud architect should work backward from the business need
to design the best architecture for a specific use case. As you progress through the module,
consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example business need and think
about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Overview of caching
Caching Content
This section provides an overview of caching and explains how caching helps businesses.
=== Page 11 ===
Why cache content?
A cache is a high-speed data storage layer that stores a subset of data
so that future requests for that data are served up faster.
Store regularly Increase data Reduce the need to
accessed data in a retrieval access the underlying
more optimized way. performance. slower storage layer.
The speed at which you deliver content affects the success of your application. Caching provides
a way to increase the speed of data retrieval and reduces the frequency in which the main
database or storage layer is accessed. In computing, a cacheis a high-speed data storage layer.
Unlike a database, which usually stores data in a complete and durable form, a cache transiently
stores a subset of data.
Caching facilitates faster access to data because the primary purpose of a cache is to increase
the performance of data retrieval by reducing the need to access the underlying, slower storage
layer. Future requests for cached data are served faster than requests that access the data’s
primary storage location. Caching gives you the ability to efficiently reuse previously retrieved or
computed data. Caching is an optimization strategy that will help with cost reduction and
performance enhancement. For the end user, caching provides faster performance.
=== Page 12 ===
Caching analogy
To illustrate how a cache improves performance, consider the example of making a trip to a
hardware store.
If the store is miles away, it takes you considerable effort to go there every time you need
something. Instead, you can store the supplies that you use regularly in a tool shed close to your
house. Therefore, it takes you less time to access these supplies than it would to go all the way
to the hardware store. However, you could still go to the store to refresh your supplies.
In this example, the tool shed is analogous to a cache. You keep the tools you need often in a
nearby location. In caching, this nearby location can have different forms, such as edge locations
and in-memory databases. You will learn more about using edge locations and an in-memory
database in this module.
=== Page 13 ===
What should you cache?
Static and frequently Results of Results of time-
accessed data computationally consuming, frequently
intensive used, or complex
calculations database queries
The following are examples of typically cached content:
• Static and frequently accessed data: For caching to provide meaningful benefits, the data
should be static and frequently accessed, such as a personal profile on a social media site.
Static content is content that rarely changes, such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, and
video files. Conversely, you don't want to cache data if caching it provides no speed or cost
advantage.
• Results of computationally intensive calculations: Compute-intensive workloads that
manipulate data sets, such as recommendation engines and high-performance computing
simulations, also benefit from caching in the form of an in-memory data layer acting as a
cache.
• Results of time-consuming, frequently used, or complex database queries: Time-
consuming, frequently used, or complex database queries often create bottlenecks in
applications. Generally, if the data requires a slow and expensive query to acquire, it's a
candidate for caching. For example, queries that perform joins on multiple tables are slower
and more expensive than queries on single tables. However, even data that requires a
relatively quick query might still be a candidate for caching.
=== Page 14 ===
Trade-offs to consider when caching
Benefits of caching Challenges of caching
• Reduces response latency • Requires additional engineering
• Reduces cost • Requires someone to determine
how to cache data and deal with
• Alleviates the load on the origin
stale data based on the business
(data source)
use case
• Provides predictable
performance
• Improves availability
The benefits of caching are its ability to reduce the response latency that users experience with
your application, reduce cost, alleviate the load on source data, and provide predictable
application performance. When implementing caching, an extra component is added to the
infrastructure. Although caching enhances performance, it also increases complexity. You
should consider the additional engineering required to maintain the cache. Additional coding
may be required in some database scenarios. Another challenge of caching content is
determining how to cache data and deal with stale data. This is done based on the business use
case. This module discusses ways to dealwith stale content so that you can decide when having
up-to-date data is worth the cost and effort.
When implementing caching data, consider the trade-offs. It can help dramatically improve
performance but requires a clear strategy for how and when to update or invalidate cached data
to prevent incorrect system behavior.
=== Page 15 ===
Types of caching and AWS caching services
Amazon CloudFront Amazon ElastiCache
Static caching (edge caching) Database caching (data caching)
Retrieve content from the nearest Retrieve content from an in-
edge location. memory database layer.
The two types of caching that you will learn about in this module are static caching and
database caching:
• Static caching, or edge caching, is using caching servers to store content closer to users. A
content delivery network (CDN)provides the ability to use its global network of edge
locations to deliver a cached copy of web content such as videos, webpages, and images to
your customers. To reduce response time, a CDN uses the edge location nearest to the
customer or to the originating request location to deliver a cached copy of static content.
CloudFront is a global CDN service that accelerates the delivery of your content.
• In database caching, the cache acts as an adjacent data access layer to your database that
your applications can use to improve performance. A database cache layer can be applied in
front of any type of database, including relational and NoSQL databases. Common techniques
used to load data into your cache include lazy loading and write-through
methods.ElastiCacheis a web service that you can use to deploy, operate, and scale an in-
memory data store or cache in the cloud. The service improves the performance of web
applications by giving you the ability to retrieve information from fast, managed, in-memory
data stores instead of relying entirely on slower disk-based databases.
=== Page 16 ===
Key takeaways: • A cache is a high-speed data storage layer
Overview of that stores a subset of data so that future
caching requests for that data are served up
faster.
• Static and frequently accessed dataare
good candidates for caching.
• Caching improves application speed and
decreases database cost.
• Content is retrieved from the nearest
edge location with static caching and
retrieved from an in-memory database
layer with database caching.
=== Page 17 ===
Caching using CloudFront
Caching Content
This section explains how CloudFront facilitates static caching securely as a CDN service.
=== Page 18 ===
Content delivery network (CDN)
Delivery challenge CDN solution
Deliver geographically • Is a globally distributed system of caching
dispersed content with servers
low latency and low
• Has intermediary servers between the client
cost for end users to
and the application
access.
• Caches copies of commonly requested files
(static content)
• Delivers a local copy of the requested
content from a nearby cache edge or point
of presence
Challenge: Because of the global and complex nature of the internet, communication traffic
between applications and their users (clients) has to move over large physical distances. The
communication is also two-way, with requests going from the client to the server and responses
coming back. For example, when a user visits a website, data from that website's server has to
travel across the internet to reach the user's computer. If the user is located far from that
server, it will take a long time to load a large file, such as a video or website image.
Solution: A CDN is a network of interconnected servers that speeds up application loading for
data-heavy applications. Static content is stored on CDN servers geographically closer to the
users and reaches their computers much faster. A CDN improves efficiency by introducing
intermediary servers between the client and the website server. These CDN servers manage
some of the client-server communications. They decrease web traffic to the web server, reduce
bandwidth consumption, and improve the user experience of your applications. A CDN caches
copies of commonly requested files that are hosted on the application origin server. These files
can include static content, such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, image, and video files. The CDN
delivers a local copy of the requested content from a cache edge or point of presence (PoP) that
provides the fastest delivery to the requester.
=== Page 19 ===
Which type of content can you cache by using an edge
cache?
User-generated
data cannot be
Dynamically
cached by using an
generated content
edge cache.
cannot be cached by
using an edge cache.
Web objects
can be cached.
Images
can be cached. Videos
can be cached.
This example of an Amazon.com webpage shows how static and dynamic content can compose
a dynamic web application. This web application is delivered through the HTTPS protocol for the
encryption of user page requests and the pages that are returned from a web server.
• You can use a CDN or edge cache to cache static content. Such content might include web
objects (for example, HTML documents, CSS style sheets, or JavaScript files), image files, and
video files.
• You cannot cache dynamically generated content or user-generated data. However, you can
configure CloudFront to deliver this information from an application that runs on a custom
origin. For example, it might be an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance or
a web server.
Additionally, you can configure CloudFront to require that viewers use HTTPS to request your
objects so that connections are encrypted when CloudFront communicates with viewers. You
also can configure CloudFront to use HTTPS to get objects from your origin so that connections
are encrypted when CloudFront communicates with your origin.
=== Page 20 ===
CloudFront
•Is a CDN service that delivers content across
the globe securely with low latency and high
transfer speeds
•Provides high-speed content distribution by
delivering through edge locations
•Improves application resiliency from
CloudFront
distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks
by leveraging services such as AWS Shield
and AWS WAF
• CloudFront is a CDN service built for high performance, security, and developer convenience.
With CloudFront, you can deliver data through globally dispersed PoPs with automated
network mapping and intelligent routing.
• CloudFront speeds up the distribution of your content by routing each user request through
the AWS backbone network to the edge location that can best serve your content. Typically,
this is a CloudFront edge server that provides the fastest delivery to the viewer. Using the
AWS network dramatically reduces the number of networks that your users' requests must
pass through, which improves performance. You also get increased reliability and availability
because copies of your contentare now cached in multiple edge locations around the world.
• With the web application firewall, AWS WAF, and the managed distributed denial of service
(DDoS) protection service, AWS Shield, you can use CloudFront to improve the resiliency of
your applications that run on AWS from DDoS attacks. CloudFront protects against network
and application layer attacks, supports multiple methods of access control, and helps ensure
secure delivery for sensitive data. CloudFrontdelivers content over HTTPS by using the latest
TLS version to encrypt and secure communication between viewer clients and CloudFront.
=== Page 21 ===
CloudFront global edge network components
CloudFront edge locations CloudFront Regional edge caches
• Are more numerous and closer • Are fewer and farther away
to users from users
• Have smaller caches • Have larger caches
• Help ensure that popular • Helps with less popular content
content can be served quickly to in particular
viewers
To deliver content with lower latency to end users, CloudFront uses a global network of more
than 550 edge locations and 13 Regional edge caches in more than 100 cities across 50
countries. The information is current as of October 2023.
• CloudFront edge locations are more numerous and closer to users than Regional edge
caches. There are fewer CloudFront Regional edge caches, which are farther away from users
than edge locations. A Regional edge cache has a larger cache than an individual edge
location, so objects remain in the Regional edge cache longer. This arrangement helps to
keep more of your content closer to your viewers.
• CloudFront edge locations make sure that popular content can be served quickly to viewers.
As objects become less popular, individual edge locations might remove those objects to
make room for more popular content. For less popular content, CloudFront has Regional
edge caches. Regional edge caches help with all types of content, particularly content that
tends to become less popular over time. Examples include user-generated content;
ecommerce assets, such as product photos and videos; and news and event-related content
that might suddenly become popular.
• As the slide shows, Regional edge caches are CloudFront locations that are deployed globally
and close to your viewers. They are located between your origin location and the global edge
locations that serve content directly to viewers. Regional edge caches reduce the need for
CloudFront to go back to your origin server, and they improve overall performance for
viewers.
• CloudFront edge locations are connected to AWS Regions through the AWS network
backbone—fully redundant, multiple 100 gigabit Ethernet (GbE) parallel fibers that circle the
globe and link with tens of thousands of networks for improved origin fetches and dynamic
content acceleration.
=== Page 22 ===
For more information about where the edge locations and Regional edge caches are,
see the Amazon CloudFront Key Features pagein the course resource document.
=== Page 23 ===
How caching works in CloudFront
1. A user makes a request to access the cat.jpg image file.
2. The DNS routes the request to the edge location that can best serve the request. Typically, it
is the nearest edge location that has the shortest latency. CloudFront checks the cache for
the requested content. If the content is in the cache, CloudFront delivers it immediately to
the user (step 5), and the data journey ends here.
3. The content might not be currently in the cache. If that is the case, CloudFront forwards the
request to the origin location that you identified as the source for the definitive version of
your content: in this case, the Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket that
contains the image file.
4. The origin location sends the object back to the edge location.
5. CloudFront then forwards the file to the user, and it also adds it to the cache for the next
time someone requests it.
The time to live (TTL) isthe setting in CloudFront that determines how long the edge locations
should cache the content before requesting it again from the origin server. Based on the TTL
specified, the cached image will become stale if the origin is updated.
=== Page 24 ===
How to configure a CloudFront distribution
Specify an Configure CloudFront CloudFront
origin location. the distribution. becomes sends your
available. distribution’s
configuration to
edge locations.
When you want to use CloudFront to distribute your content, follow these steps:
1. You specify the origin location from which CloudFront gets your files. These files will be
distributed from CloudFront edge locations all over the world. An origin server stores the
original, definitive version of your objects. If you're serving content over HTTP, your origin
server is either an S3 bucket or an HTTP server, such as a web server. Your HTTP server can
run on an EC2 instance or on an on-premises server that you manage. These servers are also
known as custom origins.
2. You create a CloudFront distribution, which tells CloudFront which custom origins to get
your files from when users request the files through your website or application. At the
same time, you specify details such as whether you want CloudFront to log all requests and
whether you want the distribution to be enabled as soon as it's created.
3. CloudFront becomes available and assigns a domain name to your new distribution.
4. CloudFront sends your distribution's configuration—but not the content—to all edge
locations. Edge locations are collections of servers in geographically dispersed data centers
where CloudFront caches copies of your objects.
=== Page 25 ===
Controlling how long content is cached
Specify Use CloudFront
Set a maximum Implement
cache-control invalidation
TTL value content versioning
headers requests
Expires cached Fetches and Provides precise Forces CloudFront
content faster caches new files control over to expire content
with a low immediately content expiration from edge caches
maximum TTL for individual files
value
If you’re ever confused by a situation in which you’ve updated content, but you are still seeing
stale content, one likely reason is that CloudFront is still serving up cached content. You can
control CloudFront caching behavior with a combination of CloudFront minimum TTL
specifications, maximum TTL specifications, content versioning, cache-control HTTP headers,
and CloudFront invalidation requests.
CloudFront will typically serve cached content from an edge location until the content expires.
After it expires, the next time that content is requested by an end user, CloudFront goes back to
the origin location to fetch the content and then cache it. CloudFront edge locations
automatically expire content after maximum TTL seconds elapse (by default, this is 24 hours).
For managing how long content is cached, the best practice is to understand and use the four
approaches together:
• Set a maximum TTL value: CloudFront may expire content anytime between the minimum
TTL and maximum TTL. By default, each file automatically expires after 24 hours. You can
change the default behavior and set the maximum TTL to be a relatively low value. The trade-
off is that cached content expires faster because of the low maximum TTL value. This results
in more frequent requests to your origin because the CloudFront caches need to be
repopulated more often.
• Implement content versioning: Every time you update content, embed a version identifier in
the file names. It can be a timestamp, a sequential number, or any other information that
you can use to distinguish between two versions of the same file. Content versioning has a
clear benefit: it sidesteps CloudFront expiration behaviors altogether. Because new file
names are involved, CloudFront immediately fetches the new files from the origin (and
afterwards, cache them).
=== Page 26 ===
• Specify cache-control headers: You can manage CloudFront expiration behavior by
specifying Cache-Control headersfor your website content. If you keep the
minimum TTL at the default 0 seconds, then CloudFront honors any Cache-Control:
max-age HTTP header that is individually set for your content. This gives you more
precise control over content expiration for individual files.
• Use CloudFront invalidation requests: CloudFront invalidation requests are a way
to force CloudFront to expire content. Invalidation requests aren’t immediate. It
takes several minutes from the time that you submit one to the time that
CloudFront actually expires the content. CloudFront gives you the ability to specify
which content should be invalidated. You should use this method sparingly and
only for individual objects. The next time a viewer requests the file, CloudFront
returns to the origin to fetch the latest version of the file.
=== Page 27 ===
Using CloudFront for video streaming
You can use CloudFront to deliver streaming videos. You must use an encoder to format and
package video content before CloudFront can distribute it. After converting the video into the
output formats, you host the converted content in an S3 bucket, which is your origin server. You
then use CloudFront to deliver the segment files to users around the world.
Examples of encoders include AWS Elemental MediaConvert and Amazon Elastic Transcoder.
Elastic Transcoder provides a way for developers to convert (or transcode) media files from their
source format into versions that will play back on devices such as smartphones, tablets, and
PCs. The packaging process creates segments, which are static files that contain your audio,
video, and captions content. It also generates manifest files, which describe which segments to
play and the specific order to play them in. Package formats include Dynamic Adaptive
Streaming over HTTP (DASH, or MPEG-DASH), Apple HTTP Live Streaming (HLS), Microsoft
Smooth Streaming, and Common Media Application Format (CMAF).
=== Page 28 ===
DDoS mitigation
Security challenge CloudFront solution
Publicly accessible • Monitoring and mitigation are built into
content is exposed to Amazon Route 53 as it routes traffic to
common web threats CloudFront.
that affect availability
• CloudFront can create an AWS WAF web
and compromise access control list (ACL) that configures rules
security. to analyze incoming requests and block
threats before they reach your servers.
• Shield DDoS mitigations allow only traffic
that is valid for web applications to pass
through to CloudFront.
Challenge: Publicly accessible web applications and APIs are exposed to threats such as
commonly occurring vulnerabilities described in the OWASP Top 10; SQL injection; automated
requests; and HTTP floods (denial of service [DoS]) that affect availability, compromise security,
or consume excessive resources. A DDoS attack is a deliberate attempt to make your website or
application unavailable to users, for example, by flooding it with network traffic. To achieve this
end, attackers use multiple sources to orchestrate an attack against a target. These sources
might include distributed groups of malware-infected computers, routers, Internet of Things
(IoT) devices, and other endpoints.
Solution: You can use CloudFront to improve the resiliency of your applications that run on AWS
from DDoS attacks. To protect your system from DDoS attacks, use CloudFront for distributing
both static and dynamic content. The following combined features help ensure that your
application origin receives only well-formed web requests and that it's protected against
common web threats:
• A DNS service, such as Amazon Route 53, can effectively connect users’ requests to a
CloudFront distribution. The CloudFront distribution then proxies requests for dynamic
content to the infrastructure that hosts your application’s endpoints. Both Route 53 DNS
requests and subsequent application traffic that are routed through CloudFront are inspected
inline. Always-on monitoring, anomaly detection, and mitigation against common
infrastructure DDoS attacks are built into both Route 53 and CloudFront.
• AWS WAF analyzes incoming requests and helps you block these types of threats before they
reach your servers. You can secure your CloudFront distributions with AWS WAF by
configuring your web access control list (web ACL) containing the security rules that you’d like
to enable. CloudFront creates an AWS WAF web ACL, configures rules to protect your servers
from common web threats, and attaches the web ACL to the CloudFront distribution for you.
=== Page 29 ===
• Shield DDoS mitigation continually inspects traffic for CloudFront. Shield DDoS
mitigations allow only traffic that's valid for web applications to pass through to
the service. This provides automatic protection against many common DDoS
vectors, such as UDP reflection attacks.
=== Page 30 ===
Key takeaways: • Static file caching is done by using a CDN.
Caching using
• CloudFront is a CDN service that uses
CloudFront edge locations and Regional edge caches
to deliver content securely across the
globe.
• You can control CloudFront caching
behavior by using a combination of
actions.
• By using CloudFront for distributing
content, you are also protecting your
systems from DDoS attacks.
=== Page 31 ===
Guided lab: Streaming Dynamic
Content Using Amazon CloudFront
(CloudFront lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will
find the detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 32 ===
CloudFront lab In this lab, you perform the following main
tasks: tasks:
• Create an Amazon CloudFront
distribution.
• Create an Amazon Elastic Transcoder
pipeline.
• Test playback of the dynamic (multiple
bitrate) stream.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete
the lab.
=== Page 33 ===
Debrief: CloudFront lab
• What did you specify as the origin that will be used to deliver the
multiple bit-rate files generated by Amazon Elastic Transcoder to
end-user devices?
• Which two components does the playback URL that plays through
Amazon CloudFront consist of?
=== Page 34 ===
Caching using ElastiCache
Caching Content
This section explains how to use ElastiCache for database caching.
=== Page 35 ===
When should you cache your database?
You are concerned about You have a high volume You want to reduce your
response times for your of requests that are database costs.
customer. overburdening your
database.
As you learned earlier in this module, time-consuming database queries and complex queries
can create bottlenecks in applications.
A database cache supplements your primary database by removing unnecessary pressure on it,
typically in the form of frequently accessed read data. The cache itself can be in a number of
areas, including your database or application, or as a standalone layer. You should consider
caching your database in the following situations:
• You are concerned about response times for your customer. You might have latency-sensitive
workloads that you want to speed up. Caching can help you increase throughput and reduce
data retrieval latency, thus improving the performance of your application.
• You have a high volume of requests that overburden your database. You might have a large
amount of traffic and therefore are not getting the throughput that you need for that
workload. Putting a caching layer next to your database can increase your throughput and
help you achieve higher performance.
• You would like to reduce your database costs. Whether data is distributed in a disk-based
NoSQL database or vertically scaled up in a relational database, scaling for high reads can be
costly. A number of database read replicas might be necessary to match what a single in-
memory cache node can deliver in terms of requests per second.
=== Page 36 ===
A use case is an online medical library with search capabilities that are driven by a
database. The database was overloaded due to a high number of queries from a
search engine. The results from the queries were so large that they saturated the
customer’s low-speed network link, affecting the response time. In this case, the
solution was an in-memory cache based on ElastiCache. Because the issue involves
latency to the backend database, using ElastiCache will reduce network latency and
offload the database pressure.
When implementing caching data, also consider the trade-offs. Caching can help
dramatically improve performance but requires a clear strategy for how and when to
update or invalidate cached data to prevent incorrect system behavior.
=== Page 37 ===
ElastiCache
•Is a fully managed, key-value, in-memory data
store with sub-millisecond latency
•Sits between an application and an origin data
store
•Decreases access latency and eases the load of
databases and applications
•Provides a high performance and cost-effective
ElastiCache
in-memory cache
•Is fully compatible with open source Redis and
Memcached engines
ElastiCache is an in-memory, key-value store that sits between your application and the data
store (database) that it accesses. You can use ElastiCache to deploy, operate, and scale an in-
memory cache in the cloud.
The benefits of ElastiCache include the following:
• Fully managed:ElastiCache manages the work involved in setting up a distributed in-memory
environment, from provisioning the server resources that you request to installing the
software. After your environment is up and running, the service automates common
administrative tasks, such as failure detection, recovery, and software patching. ElastiCache
provides detailed monitoring metrics that are associated with your nodes to help you
diagnose and react to issues quickly.
• Scalable:ElastiCache can scale out, scale in, and scale up to meet fluctuating application
demands.
• Extreme performance:ElastiCache works as an in-memory data store and cache to support
the most demanding applications that require sub-millisecond response times.
• Cost-effective: Most data stores have areas of data that are frequently accessed but seldom
updated. Additionally, querying a database is always slower and more expensive than
locating a key in a key-value pair cache. Some database queries are especially expensive to
perform, such as queries that involve joins across multiple tables or queries with intensive
calculations. By caching these kinds of query results, you pay the price of the query one time.
Then, you can quickly retrieve the data multiple times without having to rerun the query.
=== Page 38 ===
• Memcached or Redis compatible: Developers can continue to use the same Redis
and Memcached application code, drivers, and tools to run, manage, and scale
their workloads on ElastiCache. You can use Elasticacheto seamlessly deploy, run,
and scale popular open-source-compatible in-memory data stores. Manage and
analyze fast-moving data with ElastiCache for Redis, or build a scalable caching tier
for data-intensive applications with ElastiCache for Memcached.
=== Page 39 ===
Choose an ElastiCache engine based on what you need
• the most basic model
• the ability to run large nodes with
Choose
multiple cores or threads
If you need:
• the ability to scale horizontally with ElastiCache
Auto Discovery for Memcached
• to support complex data types
• to provide persistence of your key store
• to sort or rank in-memory datasets Choose
If you need: • to provide high availability with automatic
ElastiCache
failover for Redis
• to support publish/subscribe messaging
One goal of ElastiCache is to reduce the additional complexity of administering your in-memory
caching systems for Redis and Memcached engines. The Memcached and Redis engines are
caches that can be used to offload a database burden. Both engines offer sub-millisecond
response times. By storing data in memory, they can read data more quickly than disk-based
databases. Each engine provides certain advantages.
ElastiCache for Memcached offers the following:
• Low maintenance: Memcached requires less maintenance than Redis. Choose Memcached if
you need the most basic model.
• Multithreading: Because Memcached is multithreaded, it can use multiple processing cores,
which means that you can handle more operations by scaling up compute capacity. Choose
this engine if you need to run large nodes with multiple cores or threads.
• Horizontal scalability with Auto Discovery: When Memcached clusters are used in
ElastiCache, the clusters can add and remove nodes by using the Auto Discovery feature. This
feature automatically discovers changes to the node membership in a cluster, such as new
nodes that are added or nodes that were subtracted. The ElastiCache client reconfigures
automatically in response.
=== Page 40 ===
ElastiCache for Redis offers the following:
• Advanced data structures: Redis supports complex data types, such as strings,
hashes, lists, sets, sorted sets, and bitmaps. If you need complex data types,
choose Redis.
• Persistence:Redis provides persistence of your key store. By contrast, the
Memcached engine does not support persistence. For example, perhaps a node
fails and is replaced with a new, empty node, or you might delete a node or scale
one down. In this case, you lose the data that’s stored in cache memory.
• Sorting or ranking of datasets: You can use Redis to sort or rank in-memory
datasets. For example, you can use Redis-sorted sets to implement a game
leaderboard that keeps a list of players that is sorted by their rank.
• Multi-AZ deployments with automatic failover:ElastiCache for Redis provides
high availability through Multi-AZ deployments with automatic failover in case
your primary node fails.
• Publish/subscribe messaging: Redis supports publish/subscribe messaging with
pattern matching, which you can use for high-performance chat rooms, real-time
comment streams, social media feeds, and server intercommunication.
=== Page 41 ===
ElastiCache components
A node is the smallest block
of an ElastiCache deployment.
An ElastiCache cluster is
a logical grouping of
one or more nodes.
With the Memcached engine,
data is partitioned across up to
20 nodes in a cluster. With the
Redis engine, you can scale up
to 250 nodes.
Acachenodeis the smallest building block of an ElastiCache deployment. It is a fixed-size chunk
of secure, network-attached RAM. Each node runs the engine that was chosen when the cluster
or replication group was created or last modified. Each node has its own DNS name and port. It
can exist in isolation from other nodes or in a grouping with other nodes, which is also known
as a cluster. If necessary, you can scale the nodes in a cluster up or down to a different instance
type. Your application connects to an ElastiCache node or cluster by using a unique address that
is called an endpoint.
While the ElastiCachecomponents are the same, depending on which engine you use, there will
be some differences.
• With the Memcached engine, data is partitioned across nodes in a cluster. Memcached data
is partitioned across up to 20 nodes. For Memcached workloads, data is partitioned across all
nodes in the cluster. Thus, you can scale out to better handle more data when demand
grows.
• With the Redis engine, you can scale your Redis cluster up to 250 nodes.A Redis cluster is a
logical grouping of one or more shards. A Redis shard is a grouping of 1-6 related nodes.
ElastiCache for Redis provides high availability through Multi-AZ deployments with automatic
failover.
=== Page 42 ===
Time to live (TTL)
• A TTL value is added to each write.
• The TTL specifies the number of seconds or
milliseconds until the key expires.
• After the TTL expires, the application queries the
database for data.
The time to live (TTL) is an integer value or key that specifies the number of seconds or
milliseconds, depending on the in-memory engine, until the key expires. When an application
attempts to read an expired key, the application is treated as though the data isn’t found in the
cache. As a result, the database is queried and the cache is updated. This way, the data doesn’t
get too stale, and values in the cache are occasionally refreshed from the database.
Data gets stale by nature. The next slide explains two strategies to handle stale data.
=== Page 43 ===
Strategies for handling stale data
Features Lazy Loading Write-Through
This strategy updates the This strategy updates the cache
Caching
cache after the data is immediately after updating the
Pattern
requested. primary database.
The cache is up-to-date with
The cache contains only data
the primary database (most
Advantage that the application actually
likely data will be found in the
requests.
cache).
This strategy requires a This strategy results in an
programmatic strategy to increase in cost from storing
Disadvantage
handle keeping the cache as up data in-memory that you might
to date. not use.
There are multiple strategies for keeping information in the cache in sync with the database.
This slide examines two of the common caching strategies. At a high level, the following is a
comparison of these strategies:
• In lazy loading, data is loaded into the cache only when it is necessary. Lazy loading helps
ensure that the data loaded into the cache is data that the application needs. The
disadvantage of this strategy is that it permits stale data, so the data is not always up to date.
• An alternative strategy is to write-through to the cache every time the database is accessed.
This approach results in fewer cache misses, which can improve performance but requires
additional storage for data, which the application might or might not need. In this strategy,
the infrequently requested data that is also written to the cache results in a larger and more
expensive cache.
The issue with caching data is it becomes stale by its nature. Therefore, it’s important to employ
a programmatic strategy to handle keeping the cache as up to date as is appropriate. These
caching strategies need to focus on the business considerations such as cost, speed, start up,
and a tolerance for sometimes having stale data for a short period of time. The best strategy
depends on your use case. It is critical to understand the impact of stale data on your use case.
If the impact is high, then consider maintaining freshness with write-throughs. If the impact is
low, then lazy loading might be sufficient. It also helps to understand the frequency of change of
the underlying data because this frequency affects the performance and cost trade-offs of the
caching strategies. Once you decide on a strategy for maintaining your cache, you will need to
implement this approach within your application.
=== Page 44 ===
Caching strategies: Lazy loading
Lower latency
response to
the requester
Reduced
load on the
primary
database
This diagram shows how a user can access content by using lazy loading caching. (The green
lines show a data request, and the purple lines show a data response.)
1. A user makes a request to access content. Whether or not the requested data is in the cache
determines the next step.
2a. The application code first tries and reads the data from the cache. If the cache contains the
data, ElastiCache returns the file to the user, and the data journey ends here. This is known as
acache hit.
2b. If the data was not found in the cache, it is known as a cache miss. The cache forwards the
request to the primary database that hosts the content. The origin server sends the requested
data to the user and adds it to the cache for the next time someone requests it.
This diagram does not show how to handle a stale cache and shows only the high-level process
for caching responses from an underlying data source.
Use lazy loading when you have data that will be read often but written infrequently. For
example, in a typical web or mobile application, a user’s profile rarely changes, but it is accessed
throughout the application. A person might update his or her profile only a few times per year.
However, the profile might be accessed dozens or hundreds of times a day, depending on the
user.
The advantage of lazy loading is that only requested data is cached. Because most data is never
requested, lazy loading avoids filling up the cache with unnecessary data. However, a cache miss
incurs a penalty. Each cache miss results in three trips, which can cause a noticeable delay in
data getting to the application. Also, if data is written to the cache only when a cache miss
occurs, data in the cache can become stale. Lazy loading does not provide updates to the cache
=== Page 45 ===
when data is changed in the database.
=== Page 46 ===
Caching strategies: Write-through
This diagram show how content gets cached by using the write-through strategy.
1. With any change or update to the application, the data is written to the database.
2. Immediately after, the local cache gets updated.
This approach is proactive: you can avoid unnecessary cache misses when you have data that
you know is going to be accessed. The advantage of this approach is that it increases the
likelihood that your application will find that value in the cache when it looks for it. Data in the
cache is always up to date and never stale. The disadvantage is that you are potentially caching
data that you don’t need, so this approach can cause added costs.
Use a write-through caching strategy when you have data that must be updated in real time.
=== Page 47 ===
Key takeaways: • ElastiCache is a key-value, in-memory
Caching using data store with the purpose of providing
ElastiCache millisecond latency and inexpensive
access to copies of data.
• ElastiCache reduces the complexity of
administering your caching systems for
Redis and Memcached engines.
• Lazy loading and write-through are two
strategies to handle keeping the cache as
up to date as is appropriate.
=== Page 48 ===
Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to caching
Caching Content
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles to caching
your content.
=== Page 49 ===
AWS Well-Architected Framework caching best practices
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and
a set of questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section
highlights a few best practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module. Find the
complete set of best practices by pillar on the Well-Architected Framework website. The
content resources section of your online course provides a link.
As you make connections between the AWS Well-Architected Framework pillars and caching,
consider your role as a cloud architect caching content and the need to know the following
information:
• When to cache content to improve performance and optimize cost
• How to deal with stale content so that you can balance managing cost with having up-to-date
data.
• Why to incorporatea CDN service as an in-memory caching strategyinto your architecture
designs
=== Page 50 ===
Best practice approach: Data management
Best practices
Implement data access patterns that
utilize caching.
Implement strategies to improve
query performance in data store.
Storing data in a cache can improve read latency, read throughput, user experience, and overall
efficiency, as well as reduce costs. Data caching can be one of the most effective strategies to
improve your overall application performance and reduce burden on your underlying primary
data sources.
Implement data access patterns that utilize caching: First identify databases, APIs and network
services that could benefit from caching. Services that have heavy read workloads, have a high
read-to-write ratio, or are expensive to scale are candidates for caching. Next, identify the
appropriate type of caching strategy that best fits your access pattern. Then configure a cache
invalidation strategy, such as a time-to-live (TTL), for all data that balances freshness of data and
reducing pressure on backend datastore. Finally, monitor cache hit rate with a goal of 80% or
higher. Lower values may indicate insufficient cache size or an access pattern that does not
benefit from caching.
In this module, you've learned how Amazon CloudFront will typically serve cached content from
an edge location until the content expires. To solve the issue of have two copies of the data, you
can control CloudFront caching behavior with a combination of CloudFront minimum TTL
specifications, maximum TTL specifications, content versioning, cache-control HTTP headers,
and CloudFront invalidation requests.
=== Page 51 ===
In this module, you’ve also learned how in-memory databases are used for
applications that require real-time access to data, the lowest latency, and the highest
throughput. By storing data directly in memory, these databases deliver microsecond
latency to applications where millisecond latency is not enough. You may use in-
memory databases for application caching, session management, gaming
leaderboards, and geospatial applications.ElastiCacheis a fully managed in-memory
data store that is compatible with Redis and Memcached.
Implement strategies to improve query performance in data store: Optimizing data
and query performance results in more efficiency, lower cost, and improved user
experience. Data optimization and query tuning are critical aspects of performance
efficiency in a data store, as they impact the performance and responsiveness of the
entire cloud workload. Unoptimized queries can result in greater resource usage and
bottlenecks, which reduce the overall efficiency of a data store. One strategy to
improve query performance is a distributed caching solution which will improve
latency and reduce the number of database I/O operation.
=== Page 52 ===
Best practice approach: Foundations –plan your network topology
Best practice
Use highly available network
connectivity for your workload
public endpoints.
It is critical to plan, build, and operationalize highly available network connectivity for your
public endpoints. If your workload becomes unreachable due to a loss in connectivity, even if
your workload is running and available, your customers will see your system as down. By
combining the highly available and resilient network connectivity for your workload’s public
endpoints, along with a resilient architecture for your workload itself, you can provide the best
possible availability and service level for your customers. To achieve this, one of the best
practices is to use CDNs.
Use highly available network connectivity for your workload public endpoints: CloudFront
provides an API for distributing content with low latency and high data transfer rates by serving
requests through the use a network of edge locations around the world. CDNs serve customers
by serving content located or cached at a location near the user. This also improves the
availability of your application because the load for content is shifted away from your servers to
CloudFrontedge locations. The edge locations and Regional edge caches hold cached copies of
your content close to your viewers, which results in quick retrieval and increases the
reachability and availability of your workload.
In this module, you've learned how CloudFront securely delivers content across the globe and
improves application resiliency from DDoS attacks. Caching content by using CloudFront
increase the reliability of your customers’ access to your application.
=== Page 53 ===
Best practice approach: Cost-effective resources -plan for data transfer
Best practices
Perform data transfer modeling.
Select components to optimize data
transfer cost.
Implement services to reduce data
transfer costs.
Using the appropriate services, resources, and configurations for your workloads is key to cost
savings. These best practices will help you optimize cost when caching content.
Perform data transfer modeling: Gather requirements and perform data transfer modeling of
the workload and each of its components. This identifies the lowest cost point for its current
data transfer requirements. Understand where the data transfer occurs in your workload, the
cost of the transfer, and its associated benefit. You can use this information to make an
informed decision to modify or accept the architectural decision.
Select components to optimize data transfer cost: Architecting for data transfer helps you
minimize data transfer costs. By using the data transfer modeling, focus on where the largest
data transfer costs are or where they would be if the workload usage changes. Look for
alternative architectures or additional components that remove or reduce the need for data
transfer or lower its cost. This may involve using CDNs to locate data closer to users.
Implement services to reduce data transfer costs: You can use edge locations or CDNs to
deliver content to end users or build caching layers in front of your application servers or
databases. Depending on your workload components, type, and cloud architecture, a variety of
services can assist you in compressing, caching, and sharing and distributing your traffic on the
cloud. CloudFront caches data at edge locations across the world, which reduces the load on
your resources. By using CloudFront, you can reduce the administrative effort to deliver content
to large numbers of users globally with minimum latency. The security savings bundlecan help
you save up to 30 percent on your CloudFront usage if you plan to grow your usage over time.
=== Page 54 ===
In this module, one way you’ve learned how to optimize costs with caching is by
controlling how long content is cached. You can control CloudFront caching behavior
with a combination of CloudFront minimum TTL specifications, maximum TTL
specifications, content versioning, cache-control HTTP headers, and CloudFront
invalidation requests.When implementing caching, consider an appropriate strategy
for ensuring that you provide accurate results.
=== Page 55 ===
Key takeaways: • Consider best practices in the performance
Applying AWS Well - efficiency pillar such as making selection choices
Architected based on data characteristics and available
options.
Framework
principles to caching • Considerbest practices in the reliability pillar such
as using highly available network connectivity for
your public endpoints.
• Consider best practices in the cost optimization
pillar such as implementingservices to reduce data
transfer costs.
=== Page 56 ===
Module wrap-up
Caching Content
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 57 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Identify how caching content can improve application performance and
reduce latency.
• Identify how to use Amazon CloudFront to deliver content by using edge
locations protection.
• Create architectures that use CloudFront to cache content.
• Describe how to use ElastiCachefor database caching.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing caching
strategies.
=== Page 58 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how you as a cloud architect might
advise the café based on the key cloud
architect concerns presented at the start of
this module.
=== Page 59 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 60 ===
Sample exam question
Your company is hosting an ecommerce site and storing the records in an Amazon RDS database. After a few
days, the Amazon RDS database is experiencing serious performance issues due to website requests. Which option
is the most cost-effective way to deal with the performance issues due to many read requests?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Amazon RDS database
• cost-effective
• performance issues due to many read requests
=== Page 61 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
Your company is hosting an ecommerce site and storing the records in an Amazon RDS database. After a few
days, the Amazon RDS database is experiencing serious performance issues due to website requests. Which option
is the most cost-effectiveway to deal with the performance issues due to many read requests?
Choice Response
A Enable the Multi-AZ feature for the Amazon RDS database.
B Configure Amazon ElastiCache to cache frequently used content from the database.
C Place a load balancer in front of the database.
D Configure Amazon CloudFront to cache content from the database.
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible
responses to determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 62 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is B.
Choice Response
B Configure Amazon ElastiCache to cache frequently used content from the database.
Choice A (Enable the Multi-AZ feature for the Amazon RDS database) would provide high
availability but would not improve database performance.
Choice C (Place a load balancer in front of the database) would not impact database
performance.
Choice D (Configure Amazon CloudFront to cache content from the database) would not
improve performance because CloudFront is not used for database caching.
Choice B (Configure Amazon ElastiCache to cache frequently used content from the database) is
the best choice. This option will reduce the amount of traffic being sent to the database.
=== Page 63 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to
additional resources that are related to this module.