# Clean Text Extracted from: 14.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:08
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 14 Student Guide
Version 3.0.2
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 14: Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices 4
=== Page 4 ===
Building Serverless Architectures and
Microservices
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices module. This module introduces you to
serverless architectures and microservices. You will also learn how to use AWS services for serverless
architectures and microservices.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the following:
objectives • Define serverless architectures.
• Identify the characteristics of microservices.
• Architect a serverless solution with AWS Lambda.
• Define how containers are used in Amazon Web
Services (AWS).
• Describe the types of workflows that AWS Step
Functions supports.
• Describe a common architecture for Amazon API
Gateway.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when building serverless architectures.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Demos
• Thinking serverless • Using AWS Lambda with Amazon S3
• Architecting serverless microservices • Running a Container
• Building serverless architectures with AWS Activity
Lambda
• Decomposing a Monolithic Application with
• Building microservice applications with AWS
AWS API Gateway
container services
Knowledge checks
• Orchestrating microservices with AWS Step
Functions
• 10-question knowledge check
• Extending serverless architectures with
• Sample exam question
Amazon API Gateway
• Applying AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles to microservices and serverless
architectures
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
You will also participate in an activity to make service selections for a given microservices use case.
You will also view two demonstrations that show how AWS Lambda works with Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3) and how to run a container in AWS.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question to discuss in class.
The labs in this module are described on the next slide.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided labs Challenge (Café) lab
• Implementing a Serverless • Implementing a Serverless
Architecture on AWS Architecture for the Café
• Breaking a Monolithic Node.js
Application into Microservices
(Optional)
This module includes the hands-on labs that are listed. With guided labs, you are provided step-by-step
instructions. With the café (challenge) lab, you work on updating the architecture for the café. Additional
information about each lab is included in the student guide where the lab takes place, and detailed instructions
are provided in the lab environment.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to recognize when to choose AWS
building serverless architectures and which services
microservices: to choose for each use case so that I can
build a performance- and cost-optimized
solution.
• I need to apply event-driven architectures
with microservices so that I can build
scalable and resilient microservice
architectures.
• I need to know when to use workflow
orchestrations so that my microservice
architectures can handle workflow failures
and require minimal manual intervention.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach cloud
network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this module, remembering that the
cloud architect should work backwards from the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use
case. As you progress through the module, consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example
business need and think about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 10 ===
Thinking serverless
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section looks at serverless architectures in AWS.
=== Page 11 ===
Web app three-tier design in a VPC
When you need to deploy a web application in a virtual private cloud (VPC) as in the diagram above, you will
typically use a web domain pointing to an Application Load Balancer that points to a web tier layer. For high
availability, the web tier is deployed on multiple Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)instances across
two availability zones (AZs) in an auto scaling group. This will ensure availability even when an Amazon EC2
instance fails or an AZ isn’t available. The web tier layer is responsible for the presentation layer of the browser
client.
The application tier is responsible for the business logic of the web app and is accessed from the web tier
through another Application Load Balancer pointing to the app tier. Similar to the web tier, it has a high
availability design across two AZs with an auto scaling group. The web tier and the app tier is managed by the
AWS customer who must ensure that the instances security patches and software updates are regularly applied.
The instances are monitored and alarms are configured in Amazon CloudWatch.
The app tier accesses the data tier for data requests. The data tier consists of an AWS managed Amazon
Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)Multi-AZ primary database in one AZ with synchronous replication to
the Amazon RDS secondary database in the second AZ. RDS is a managed AWS service which means that AWS is
responsible for managing the EC2 database instances and applying security patches and software updates.
When the primary database fails, the secondary database is promoted to be the primary database.
The multi-tier architecture pattern provides a general framework to ensure that decoupled and independently
scalable application components can be separately developed, managed, and maintained. The network acts as
the boundary between tiers and often requires creating many undifferentiated application components.
Components such as message queues and authentication components look the same for any application.
=== Page 12 ===
Benefits of AWS serverless
No server management Continuous scaling
Pay-for-value services Built-in high availability
Suitable for event-driven and
microservice architectures
What if you are a single web developer for an application or a brand new startup that wants to minimize
infrastructure cost? Or what if you don’t have adequate staff to do maintenance and support of the EC2
instances? Or what if you want to break down the monolith tier deployments into smaller, agile chunks? AWS
serverless services addresses these scenarios.
Back in 2013, AWS noticed that customers were using EC2 instances for really short periods. This began the
process leading to AWS serverless services where the runtime is fully managed by AWS and the payment model
is based on service usage. AWS serverless resources can be used for very short periods of time, such as double
digit milliseconds, which improves resource efficiency and provides granular cost management.
An AWS service is deemed to be serverless when you can deploy an application without having to think about
servers or the sizing of servers. AWS manages the runtime environment and sizing of the service. As a result,
you can focus on your core product and make application deployments smaller and faster. For example, AWS
Lambda functions can be deployed with one click in the AWS console and is generally ready within seconds.
The service pricing model is typically based on a usage model where cost is based on how much the service is
used and how much storage is used. This eliminates paying for services that aren’t in use. This model is
especially beneficial for startup companies when the business is still being grown to keep overhead costs low.
For example, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets have different usage tiers based on usage
patterns each with it’s own price.
Many AWS serverless services have the option to automatically scale based on a specific metric. AWS will then
scale the service resources based on the metric. As an example, Amazon DynamoDB can increase or decrease a
table’s provisioned read and write capacity throughput based on actual traffic patterns.
AWS serverless services come with fault tolerance and high availability built in. Serverless data stores operate
over three AZs, and serverless compute resources, like AWS Fargatecontainers, run in an isolated environment
that isn’t affected by other container failures.
AWS serverless services are suitable to use for event-driven and microservice architectures. As you learned in
=== Page 13 ===
the previous module, microservices is an architectural style that structures an application as a
collection of independent, loosely coupled services. Event-driven architecture (EDA) is a modern
architecture pattern built from small, decoupled services that publish, consume, or
routeevents.Events are messages sent between services. This architecture makes it easier to scale,
update, and independently deploy separate components of a system. They can be invoked by
events, they can emit events, and they have built-in capabilities for building with events. For
example, an AWS Lambda function can handle queue message events from Amazon Simple Queue
Service (Amazon SQS),or streaming events from Amazon Kinesis Data Streams or Amazon
DynamoDB Streams, or object events from Amazon S3.
=== Page 14 ===
AWS serverless services
Compute Application integration Data stores
AWS Lambda and AWS Fargate Amazon API AWS AppSync Amazon S3 Amazon Elastic
Lambda@Edge Gateway File System
Authentication (Amazon EFS)
Amazon Cognito Amazon Simple Amazon Simple Amazon Amazon Neptune
Notification Service Queue Service DynamoDB Serverless
Web hosting (Amazon SNS) (Amazon SQS)
AWS Amplify Amazon AWS Step Amazon Aurora Amazon Redshift
Content delivery EventBridge Functions Serverless Serverless
Amazon CloudFront Amazon OpenSearch
Serverless 10
Modern applications are built serverless-first, a strategy that prioritizes the adoption of serverless services, so
you can increase agility throughout your application stack. AWS developed serverless services for all three layers
of an application stack: compute, application integration, and data stores. There are even services for
specialized domains such as analytics.
AWS serverless compute options are AWS Lambda functions and AWS Fargate containers. AWS Lambda is an
event-driven compute service that lets you run code functions without provisioning or managing servers. You
can deploy Lambda functions in an AWS Region or at an edge location with Lambda@Edge. AWS Fargate is a
serverless container solution that can be used with Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) or Amazon
Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS).
Serverless application integration can be subdivided into API publishers, messaging applications, and
orchestration and events categories. Amazon API Gateway and AWS AppSync are two AWS serverless options to
publish and manage APIs. Amazon API Gateway allows you to create, publish, and maintain restful and HTTP
APIs. AWS AppSync lets you deploy and manage GraphQLAPIs. One request can collect data from different data
stores for a seamless user experience. AWS serverless messaging applications include Amazon Simple
Notification Service (Amazon SNS) and Amazon SQS. Amazon SNS follows a publish and subscribe model for
application-to-application and application-to-person communication.
Amazon SQS is a message queuing service used to decouple software application components. Serverless
orchestration and events are supplied by AWS Step Functions and Amazon EventBridge. AWS Step Functions is a
workflow orchestrator used to sequence multiple AWS services to perform complex transactions. AWS
EventBridge is an event bus service that routes events to configured destinations while checking message
schemas.
AWS serverless data stores include the following services:
• Amazon S3 stores objects in buckets.
• Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)stores files available to EC2 instances, AWS Lambda, and Amazon
ECS, Amazon EKS, and Fargate containers.
• Amazon DynamoDB is a key-value and document database service for single-digit millisecond response
=== Page 15 ===
times.
• Amazon OpenSearch Serverless provides data search and log analytics without provisioning
resources.
• Amazon Neptune Serverless is a graph database that scales based on usage.
• Amazon Redshift Serverless is a columnar relational data warehouse with a pay-for-what-you-use
pricing model.
• Amazon Aurora Serverless is a MySQL and PostgreSQL compatible relational database that scales
based on usage.
This isn’t an exhaustive list of serverless data storage options. AWS also offers specialized serverless
databases such as Amazon Timestream, Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (Amazon QLDB), and
Amazon Keyspaces(for Apache Cassandra).
For application authentication, use Amazon Cognito to manage application user pools and integrate
with external identity providers. AWS Amplify is a solution to build and host web and mobile apps.
Amazon CloudFront content delivery service can be used to distribute static web content from
Amazon S3 acting as a web server.
=== Page 16 ===
Web app three-tier design using AWS serverless services
Compare the three-tier VPC architecture with this diagram implementing the three architecture layers.
A commonly used serverless pattern for a three-tier web application design is depicted in the above example.
Amazon CloudFront distributes the static web front-end from an Amazon S3 bucket to the browser client.
The app tier user authentication is handled by an Amazon Cognito user pool which provides an JSON web token
(JWT) for authorization of API requests. API Gateway receives API requests and validates the JWT token with
Amazon Cognito. If the token is valid the request is passed to an AWS Lambda function to run the application
business logic.
To retrieve application data, the Lambda function requests data from Amazon DynamoDB used as the data tier.
=== Page 17 ===
Key takeaways: •AWS serverless services provide you
Thinking the following benefits:
Serverless
• No server management
• Pay-for-value services
• Continuous scaling
• Built-in fault tolerance
•Serverless services are suitable for
event-driven and microservice
architectures.
=== Page 18 ===
Architecting serverless microservices
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section introduces the concept of microrervices.
=== Page 19 ===
Characteristics of a microservice
Autonomous Specialized
• Can be developed and deployed • Performs a single business function
without affecting other microservices solving a specific problem
• Scales independently • Is owned by a small development
• Does not share code with other team that chooses development tools
microservices • Is stateless
• Communicates over well-defined APIs • Has its own data store
With a microservices architecture, an application is built as independent components that run each application
process as a service. These services communicate through a well-defined interface using lightweight APIs.
Services are built for business capabilities and each service performs a single function. Because they are
independently run, each service can be updated, deployed, and scaled to meet demand for specific functions of
an application.
A microservice is autonomous, meaning that it can be operated and scaled without affecting the functioning of
other services. The microservice doesn’t share any of its code or implementation with other services. Any
communication between individual microservices happens through well-defined, lightweight APIs.
A microservice is specialized, meaning that it’s designed for a specific set of capabilities. It focuses on solving a
specific problem for a single business function. For example, logging into a website can be developed as one
microservice. Typically a microservice is owned by a small development team who decides on the most suitable
runtime and coding language to use. A microservice should also be stateless to ensure fast instantiation and
scaling. Caching state is ideal for microservices to recover quickly from hardware failure. Microservices own
their own data stores to facilitate atomic, consistent, isolated, and durable (ACID) transactions if needed. If
developers contribute more code to a microservice over time and the microservice becomes complex, it can be
split into separate microservices.
=== Page 20 ===
Example: Breaking a monolithic application into microservices
Monolithic application Microservice application
Users User service
Topics Topic service
Messages
Message service
In this example, a forum application is a monolithic, tightly coupled set of processes for users, topics, and
messages. The processes run as a single service. If one process of the application experiences a spike in
demand, the entire architecture must be scaled. Adding or improving features becomes more complex as the
code base grows, which limits experimentation and makes it difficult to implement new ideas. The availability of
monolithic applications is also at risk because many dependent and tightly coupled processes increase the
impact of a single process failure.
Now, suppose that the same application runs in a microservice architecture. Each process of the application is
built as an independent component that runs as a microservice. The microservices communicate by using
lightweight API operations. Each service performs a single function that can support multiple applications.
Because the services run independently, they can be updated, deployed, and scaled to meet the demand for
specific functions of an application.
=== Page 21 ===
Benefits of microservices
Team agility Reusable code Flexible scaling
Technological freedom Resilience Simplified deployment
Microservices improve development team agility. Microservices foster an organization of small, independent
teams that take ownership of their services. Teams act within a small and well understood context and are
empowered to work more independently and more quickly. This shortens development into quick cycles.
Dividing software into small, well-defined modules enables teams to use functions for multiple purposes. A
service written for a certain function can be reused as a building block for another feature. This allows
developers to combine existing microservices to create new capabilities without writing code from scratch.
Microservices allow flexible scaling where each microservice is independently scaled to meet demand for the
application feature that it supports. This enables teams to right-size infrastructure needs, accurately measure
the cost of a feature, and maintain availability if a microservice experiences a spike in demand.
Microservices allow development teams the technological freedom to make technical decisions autonomously.
They understand that architectures don’t follow a “one size fits all” approach. Teams have the freedom to
choose the best tool to solve their specific problems. As a consequence, teams building microservices can
choose the best tool for each job. The team is responsible for creating the microservice as well as deploying and
maintaining it in a production environment.
With microservices, applications handle total service failure by degrading functionality and not crashing the
entire application as is the case with monolithic applications.
Microservices simplify deployment by using continuous integration and continuous delivery pipelines. This
simplifies trying out new ideas and rolling back if something doesn’t work. The low cost of failure enables
experimentation, helps to update code, and accelerates time-to-market for new features.
=== Page 22 ===
Microservice serverless patterns on AWS
RESTful APIs Containers Streaming
Serverless data Serverless data Serverless data
store store store
There are many microservices architecture patterns on AWS to choose from. Here are a few common serverless
compute patterns:
RESTful APIs: Representational State Transfer (REST) is an architectural style user for communication between
services that require compute to be stateless. Data and functions are resources with the state of the source at a
specific time called the resource representation. RESTful architectures can be implemented with Amazon API
Gateway and AWS Lambda as a serverless solution. REST aligns with the AWS Lambda design principle of
stateless functions. The AWS Lambda service runs your code for a set amount of time before timing out with a
maximum duration of 15 minutes.
Containers: If a microservice requires more than 15 minutes to successfully complete, containers can be used as
the compute part of the service. For serverless microservice containers, AWS Fargate can be deployed behind
an Application Load Balancer getting requests from Amazon API Gateway. If serverless is not a hard
requirement, Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) or Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon
EKS) can be used instead of AWS Fargate.
Streaming: Microservices can also be invoked by a streaming service. AWS Lambda is integrated with Amazon
Kinesis and can scale with Kinesis to provide a streaming microservice solution.
For more information on these architecture patterns as well as deployable templates, see the Serverless pattern
collection link in the resource list.
=== Page 23 ===
Microservices in a web serverless three-tier architecture
Microservices operate at the app and data tier of a web three-tier architecture. Each API request fulfills a
business capability. Combining Amazon API Gateway as the API, AWS Lambda for compute, and Amazon
DynamoDB as the data store results in a serverless microservice pattern. AWS Lambda functions are ideal for
the compute component of microservices as each function has a maximum of 15 minutes to run.
So from the example above, you can see that microservices form only a part of a three-tier architecture solution
and should not be considered a stand alone full three-tier architecture solution.
=== Page 24 ===
Key takeaways: • Microservice applications are composed of
Architecting autonomous, specialized services.
serverless
• Microservices have the following benefits:
microservices
• Team agility
• Reusable code
• Flexible scaling
• Technological freedom
• Resilience
• Simplified deployment
• Microservices can form part of a three-tier
architecture operating in the app and
data tiers.
=== Page 25 ===
Building serverless architectures with
AWS Lambda
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section reviews serverless architectures in AWS.
=== Page 26 ===
Operational task comparison
Operational tasks Server in a VPC Serverless
Configure an instance Yes No
Update operating system (OS) Yes No
Install application platform Yes No
Build and deploy apps Yes Yes
Configure automatic scaling and load balancing Yes No
Continuously secure and monitor instances Yes No
Monitor and maintain apps Yes Yes
One of the major benefits of cloud computing is its ability to hide the infrastructure layer. This ability eliminates
the need to manually manage the underlying physical hardware. In a serverless environment, this abstraction
allows you to focus on the code for your applications without spending time building and maintaining the
underlying infrastructure. With serverless applications, there are never instances, operating systems, or servers
to manage. AWS handles everything required to run and scale your application. By building serverless
applications, your developers can focus on the code that makes your business unique.
The chart above compares the operational tasks in a virtual private cloud (VPC) server environment to those in a
serverless environment. The serverless approach to development reduces overhead and lets you focus,
experiment, and innovate faster. The only serverless compute operational tasks you have to take care of in a
serverless environment are to build and deploy applications and then monitor and maintain those applications
in a production environment.
=== Page 27 ===
AWS Lambda
•AWS Lambda lets you run code functions
without provisioning or managing servers.
•Lambda functions are configurable with
runtime language, amount of memory, and
timeout duration.
•A function has a maximum duration of 15
Lambda minutes.
•Functions can be deployed as .zip files or
container images.
AWS Lambda is a compute service that lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. Lambda
runs your code on a high-availability compute infrastructure and performs all of the administration of the
compute resources, including server and operating system maintenance, capacity provisioning, automatic
scaling, and logging.
You configure your Lambda function with the runtime language you prefer, the amount of memory that the
function needs, and the maximum length of function timeout. The amount of memory determines the amount
of virtual CPU and network bandwidth. Currently, the minimum and maximum amount of memory that can be
allocated is 128MB and 10,240MB respectively. A Lambda function can’t exceed 15 minutes in duration, so 15
minutes is the maximum timeout setting. This is an AWS hard limit and can’t be changed.
You create code for the function and upload the code using a deployment package. Lambda supports two types
of deployment packages: container images and .zip file archives. The Lambda service invokes the function when
an event occurs. Lambda runs multiple instances of your function in parallel, governed by concurrency and
scaling limits. You only pay for the compute time that you consume—there is no charge when your code isn’t
running.
=== Page 28 ===
Lambda function location options
In the AWS Lambda service In an Amazon CloudFront
regional edge cache
A Lambda function can run inside a VPC owned by the AWS Lambda service or in an Amazon CloudFront
regional cache.
When you create a Lambda function, you deploy it to the AWS Region where you want your Lambda function to
run. When a Lambda function is invoked, the Lambda service instantiates an isolated Firecracker virtual machine
(VM) on an Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance in the Lambda service VPC. Firecracker was
developed at Amazon Web Services (AWS) and provides the ability to create a microVMin under a second. After
the function runs, the VM is available for the next request to run. The Lambda service will instantiate as many
runtime VM environments as the function configuration allows. The Lambda service applies network access and
security rules to the Lambda service VPC, and Lambda maintains and monitors the VPC automatically.
Lambda@Edge is an extension of AWS Lambda, a compute service that lets you run functions that customize
the content that CloudFront delivers. You can author Node.js or Python functions in one Region, US East (N.
Virginia), and then run them in AWS regional edge locations globally that are closer to the viewer. Processing
requests at AWS locations closer to the viewer instead of on origin servers significantly reduces latency and
improves the user experience. An example of a Lambda@Edge use case is a retail website that sells clothing. If
you use cookies to indicate which color a user chose for a jacket, a Lambda function can change the request so
that CloudFront returns the image of a jacket in the selected color.
To extend functions to CloudFront edge locations, you can use CloudFront functions. Please note that
CloudFront functions have no network access and have significantly smaller maximum execution time and total
package size limits.
=== Page 29 ===
Connecting a Lambda function to your VPC
Sometimes you might have a requirement to implement an architecture that has serverless components and
components running in your own VPC. When designing this type of architecture, pay close attention to scaling
as some components can cause a bottleneck.
By default, a Lambda function isn't connected to VPCs in your account. If your Lambda function needs to access
the resources in your account VPC,you can configure the function to connect to your VPC. The Lambda service
provides managed resources named Hyperplane elastic network interfaces (ENIs) which are created when the
function is configured to connect to a VPC. When invoked, the Lambda function in the Lambda VPC connects to
an ENI in your account VPC. Hyperplane ENIs provide NAT capabilities from the Lambda VPC to your account
VPC using VPC-to-VPC NAT (V2N). V2N provides connectivity from the Lambda VPC to your account VPC, but it
doesn’t in the other direction.
When you connect a function to a VPC in your account, the function can't access the internet unless your VPC
provides access. To give your function access to the internet, route outbound traffic to a NAT gateway in a public
subnet. The NAT gateway has a public IP address and can connect to the internet through the VPC's internet
gateway.
In the example above, the database and the Amazon EC2 application instance can cause bottlenecks if the
Lambda functions aggressively scale. Lambda functions 1 and 2 connect to an EC2 application instance and an
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) proxy deployed in a private subnet in the customer’s VPC
using the VPC-to-VPC NAT and the ENI. To scale the EC2 instance, deploy it behind an application load balancer
in an Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group.
To scale the database, you can use Amazon RDS proxy that manages a connection pool to the Amazon RDS
database. Because Lambda functions can scale rapidly, the connections to an Amazon RDS database can be
saturated. Lambda functions that rapidly open and close database connections can cause the database to fall
behind. When no more connections are available the function will produce an error. When using MySQL and
Aurora Amazon RDS databases, you can solve this challenge with RDS proxy. The Lambda functions connect to
RDS proxy, which will have an open connection to the database ready to be used.
=== Page 30 ===
Identifying Lambda serverless scenarios
Synchronous processing Asynchronous processing Streaming processing
• Web apps • Scheduled events Streaming applications
• Web services • Queued messages
• Microservices • Image or video
• Machine learning transformation
inferences • AWS service triggers
Lambda functions are suitable to use for synchronous, asynchronous, and streaming processing.
Synchronous processing is when a requestor makes a request and expects a response within a certain time
period. One of the most common Lambda synchronous patterns are website and mobile application
microservices. For a website, you can invoke your Lambda function using Amazon API Gateway. For mobile
applications, you can process clicks within your application by invoking a Lambda function URL. An example of a
synchronous process is to add an item to your shopping cart while browsing on an ecommerce website. The
Lambda function can update the shopping cart with the item selected.
Asynchronous processing is when a requestor makes a request to offload the process at a later time. Lambda
functions can be used asynchronously as it has built in capability to handle inputs from queues and event
schedulers. An example of an asynchronous process would be delivering a package to an online shopper.
Lambda functions can be used to update the status of the package by processing messages in a queue. Other
examples are file processing and image identification.
Streaming processing is required when data arrives in a continuous stream. The Lambda service has built in
capability to batch the stream data and invoke Lambda functions to process a batch. Lambda functions are often
used for data analytics to format data into a different format or aggregate raw data. An example of a streaming
process is Amazon DynamoDB Streams to record changes in a DynamoDB table and forwarding it to a Lambda
function to aggregate.
=== Page 31 ===
Invoking a synchronous Lambda function
External API request using API Gateway
External API request using Lambda function URL
When you invoke a function synchronously, the Lambda service runs the function and waits for a response. In
this example, an API request is received from a browser client to Amazon API Gateway. API Gateway invokes the
Lambda function by calling the AWS Lambda service. While the function runs, it can optionally call other AWS
services. When the function completes, the Lambda service returns the response from the function's code with
additional data, such as the version of the function that was invoked. If the function encounters an error, the
error is returned as the response. The Lambda service returns the response to API Gateway which in turn sends
the response to the browser client.
Another option for a synchronous call to Lambda is to use a function URL. A function URL is a dedicated HTTP(S)
endpoint for your Lambda function. In the example above, the URL request is sent directly to the Lambda
service from a browser client. The Lambda service invokes the Lambda function which returns a URL response.
The response is returned to the browser client.
When you create a function URL, Lambda automatically generates a unique URL endpoint for you. After you
create a function URL, its URL endpoint never changes. Lambda function URLs use resource-based policies for
security and access control. Function URLs also support cross-origin resource sharing (CORS) configuration
options. CORS defines a way for client web applications that are loaded in one domain to interact with
resources in a different domain.
While function URLs are simple and easy to set up, the browser application will require an update if the URL
changes. When a function changes behind Amazon API Gateway, no changes are required to the browser
application.
=== Page 32 ===
Invoking an asynchronous Lambda function
AWS service trigger event
Scheduled event
When you invoke a function asynchronously, you don't wait for a response from the function code. You hand off
the event to Lambda, and Lambda handles the rest. The Lambda service places the event in a queue and returns
a success response without additional information. A separate process reads events from the queue and sends
them to the function. You can configure how Lambda handles errors and can send invocation records to a
downstream resource such as Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) or Amazon EventBridgeto chain
together components of your application.
Several AWS services, such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) and Amazon Simple Notification
Service (Amazon SNS), invoke functions asynchronously to process events. If scheduled events are required, you
can use EventBridgeas a scheduler to invoke Lambda functions. If an AWS service doesn’t have a direct
integration with the Lambda service, EventBridgecan serve as the event bus to route the request. An example
of a scheduled event is daily reporting or any recurring process that should be activated.
=== Page 33 ===
Lambda event source mappings for queues and streams
An event source mapping is a Lambda resource that reads from an event source and invokes a Lambda function.
You can use event source mappings to process items from a stream or queue in services that don't invoke
Lambda functions directly. The Lambda service can poll AWS services like Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Kinesis,
Amazon SQS, and Amazon DocumentDB(with MongoDB compatibility).
In the above diagram, the target event source is a DynamoDB stream. When the Lambda service polls the
DynamoDB stream for events, a number of events are returned to the Lambda service. The Lambda service
batches records together in a single payload and invokes the Lambda function with the payload. You can
configure the Lambda function to specify the maximum size of the batch window and the payload. The payload
can’t exceed the Lambda function input limit of 6 MB.
An example scenario would be if a customer order changed status to delivery in progress in the DynamoDB
orders table, then the Lambda function is invoked to send a notification to the customer and do some financial
processing.
=== Page 34 ===
Python Lambda function handler
1 import json
Line 2: Event object is a JSON document containing input data and invoking service data
2 def lambda_handler(event, context): Line 2: Context object provides methods and
properties about function runtime and invocation
3 length=event['length’]
4 width=event['width']
5 area = calculate_area(length, width)
6 data = {"area": area}
Line 7: json.dumps(data) returns result as a JSON
7 return json.dumps(data)
document
8 def calculate_area(length, width):
Lines 8 and 9: Business logic method
9 return length*width
The Lambda functionhandleris the entry point in your function code that processes events. When your
function is invoked, Lambda runs the handler method. Your function runs until the handler returns a response,
exits, or times out. The Lambda function handler name specified at the time that you create a Lambda function
is derived from the name of the file where the Lambda handler function is located plus the name of the Python
handler function. A function handler can be any name, however, the default name in the Lambda console
islambda_function.lambda_handler. This function handler name reflects the function name (lambda_handler)
and the file where the handler code is stored (lambda_function.py).
When Lambda invokes your function handler, the Lambda runtime passes two arguments to the function
handler: the event and the context objects. The first argument is the event object. An event is a JSON-formatted
document that contains data for a Lambda function to process. The Lambda runtime converts the event to an
object and passes it to your function code. The event object contains information from the invoking service. The
second argument is the context object. A context object is passed to your function by Lambda at runtime. This
object provides methods and properties that provide information about the invocation, function, and runtime
environment.
In the above example, the code runs in the following way:
Line 1: The Python json library module is imported for the function to use.
Line 2: This is the entry point method for the Lambda function and receives the event and context objects
parameters from the Lambda service.
Lines 3 and 4: The length and width local function variables are extracted from the event object.
Line 5: The business logic method calculate_area is called with the length and width parameters. It’s a best
practice to keep the handler function small and put the business logic in separate methods. This reduces the
handler function load times.
Lines 8 and 9: The calculate_area method runs returning the area result.
Lines 6 and 7: The area variable is converted to a JSON string and returned with the JSON library dumps
method.
To get on demand code recommendations, use Amazon Q Developer in the AWS Management Console or as a
plug-in for your preferred integrated development environment (IDE).
=== Page 35 ===
Lambda layers
Without layers With layers
Without layers image description: Two Lambda functions (function 1 and function 2) each with their own
function code and dependencies. Function 1 also includes a custom run time. End description.
With layers image description: Lambda function 1 and Lambda function 2 include only function code. Lambda
function one uses layer 1 for its custom runtime and layer 2 for its code dependencies. Lambda function 2 uses
layer 2 for its code dependencies. End description.
A Lambda layer is a .zip file archive that contains supplementary code or data. Layers usually contain library
dependencies, a custom runtime, or configuration files. You can also package your own custom runtime in a
Lambda layer if you prefer a different runtime from those provided by the Lambda service.
There are multiple reasons why you might consider using layers:
Reduce the size of your deployment packages: Instead of including all of your function dependencies along
with your function code in your deployment package, put them in a layer. This keeps deployment packages
small and organized.
Separate core function logic from dependencies: With layers, you can update your function dependencies
independent of your function code, and vice versa. This promotes separation of concerns and helps you focus
on your function logic.
Share dependencies across multiple functions: After you create a layer, you can apply it to any number of
functions in your account. Without layers, you need to include the same dependencies in each individual
deployment package.
Use the Lambda console code editor: The code editor is a useful tool for testing minor function code updates
quickly. However, you can’t use the editor if your deployment package size is too large. Using layers reduces
your package size and can unlock usage of the code editor.
=== Page 36 ===
Demo: Using AWS • This demonstration uses AWS Lambda
Lambda with and Amazon S3.
Amazon S3
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
do the following:
• Use AWS Lambda with Amazon S3 to upload an
object.
• Create a thumbnail for the object.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 37 ===
Key takeaways: • AWS Lambda is a service to run code functions
without provisioning or managing servers.
Building serverless
architectures with • A Lambda function can run inside a VPC owned
by the AWS Lambda service or as Lambda@Edge
AWS Lambda
in an Amazon CloudFront regional cache.
• A Lambda function can be configured to connect
to your VPC to access AWS services inside the
VPC.
• A Lambda function can be invoked
synchronously, asynchronously, and with event
source mappings for queues and streams.
• Use Lambda layers to package code
dependencies or custom runtimes to be re-used
by all Lambda functions in the Region.
=== Page 38 ===
Guided lab: Implementing a
Serverless Architecture on AWS
(Lambda lab)
This is an optional lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the detailed
instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 39 ===
Lambda lab • In this lab, you will do the following:
tasks:
• Implement a serverless architecture on AWS.
• Trigger Lambda functions from Amazon S3 and
Amazon DynamoDB.
• Configure Amazon Simple Notification Service
(Amazon SNS) to send notifications.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 40 ===
Debrief: Lambda lab
• When you created your Load-Inventory function, you gave the
function a role. What does a role do for a function?
• In this lab, you created multiple Lambda functions. What is the
benefit of using multiple functions rather than combining multiple
tasks into a single function?
=== Page 41 ===
Building microservice applications
with AWS container services
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section looks at building microservice applications with AWS container services.
=== Page 42 ===
Choosing containers over AWS Lambda functions
Memory intensive Migrating legacy
Longer than 15 minutes Cost
applications containers
If a service runs longer Workloads that use Containers can help • Containers can be
than 15 minutes, it isn’t more than 10 GB of migrate legacy continuously run at a
suitable for Lambda memory are not suitable applications running on- fixed cost.
functions. for Lambda functions. premises or on EC2 • The price to run a
instances without Lambda function
refactoring or increases with the
rearchitecting them. number of invocations,
duration, and memory
allocated.
Although AWS Lambda is an excellent solution for microservices, not all microservice applications are suited to
be built using Lambda functions. If a microservice process takes longer than 15 minutes to run or uses more
than 10 GB of memory, then an alternative to Lambda functions must be found. Containers can be sized to
accommodate applications exceeding the Lambda function limitations. If you need a different runtime than
Lambda provides, running it in a container could be a simpler solution than porting it to comply with the
Lambda runtime.
Legacy applications, where refactoring the code into microservices is not an option due to time or practical
constraints, are usually good candidates for containers.
AWS Lambda functions can become pricey if a function runs for an extended period and uses a lot of memory.
For example, a Lambda function with 3 million requests a month running on average for 120 ms with 1536 MB
of memory on an Arm processor would come to $7.80 per month if no free tier savings were applied. If the
memory and run period were increased to 5 GB and 5000 ms respectively, the cost increases to $1000.60 per
month with no free tier savings applied. In contrast, running five AWS Fargate containers continuously with 5 GB
memory costs $180.65. If an application receives requests continuously and has very little idle time, there is a
number of transactions per second price point where containers would be more cost effective than Lambda
functions. Please note that these price amounts are illustrative and might not match current prices.
=== Page 43 ===
The benefit of containers
Virtual machines Containers
Virtual machine (VM) architecture was designed to accommodate multiple applications running on different
guest operating systems (OS). Each VM package consists of the app code, app dependencies, and a guest OS
layer, which means that they are relatively large. VM packages are deployed on the hypervisor that allocates
host resources to each application.
Containers are standardized application code packages that contain the code and the code dependencies. They
run on top of the container engine and only have read access to parts of the host OS. Container packages are
notably smaller than VM packages. As a result, containers are lightweight and can rapidly start running and can
scale quickly to accommodate changing workloads. Containers are self contained and will run consistently
regardless of the OS and hardware platform.
In essence, the container engine replaces the hypervisor and guest OS layers of a VM. Containers use less host
system resources because they do not include the guest OS. This means you can run many more containers on a
same sized host than VM applications.
Some of the most widely used container engines are Docker Engine, containerd, and Red Hat OpenShift.
=== Page 44 ===
Container use cases
Microservice applications Batch processing
Scale machine learning Standardize hybrid
(ML) models architecture applications
Migrate applications to the
cloud
So what type of use cases are very well suited to containers? You can package a microservice as a container
application which will run in an isolated process without affecting other microservices. Containers are also
suitable for batch jobs that require prolonged processing. For example, an extract, transform, and load (ETL) job
can run as long as the transformation takes and can be scaled dynamically to respond to demand changes.
AWS makes use of containers for machine learning (ML) services, such as Amazon SageMaker, to deploy
packaged algorithms to train and deploy ML models. AWS customers can also use containers to scale and run
ML models to run close to the large datasets needed to train the models.
If you have architecture that spans the AWS cloud and on-premises, you can use containers to standardize the
application code and deployment packages to lighten the maintenance and administration load for the separate
environments.
If you require applications to rapidly move from on-premises to the cloud, containers can be used to package
applications and deploy them in the cloud without making any code changes.
=== Page 45 ===
Creating and deploying Docker containers
Docker Engine is widely used in AWS as a container engine. The first step in creating and deploying a Docker
container is to create a Dockerfile. The Dockerfile is a text file that contains build instructions on how to build
the container image. It specifies the container environment and code that runs inside the environment. The
next step is to build the container image by running a container engine build command.
After a successful build and local host testing and verification, the container image is uploaded in a container
repository. The container image is now ready for deployment. Typically, multiple containers will be deployed
from a single image.
Although you can manually deploy containers, companies prefer to use container orchestration services to
manage, deploy, and scale hundreds or thousands of containers. The orchestration service pulls the required
container image from the container repository and deploys the number of required containers on the compute
platform. Container orchestration services can use one compute platform or multiple types of compute
platforms to deploy and manage containers. The orchestration service will keep track of the health of the
compute platform and containers.
Container specifications are governed by the Open Container Initiative (OCI) which provides the industry
standard for container image, runtime, and distribution specifications. This means that containers can be ported
to different platforms and environments without changes.
=== Page 46 ===
AWS container services
Registry Orchestration Compute options
Amazon Elastic Amazon Elastic Amazon Elastic
Container Registry Container Service Compute Cloud
(Amazon ECR) (Amazon ECS) (Amazon EC2)
Amazon Elastic AWS Fargate
Kubernetes Service
(Amazon EKS)
AWS Lambda
AWS has a number of services that run and support containers. At the core of these are services to manage
container registry, orchestration, and compute options.
The Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) is an AWS managed container image registry service that
is secure, scalable, and reliable. Amazon ECR supports private and public repositories. Private repositories have
resource-based permissions using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) to allow only specific users or
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances access to your container images.
AWS has two container orchestrations options to manage container clusters. Container orchestrations provide a
simplified interface to create and maintain container clusters. Provisioning the cluster is usually done with a
single API call and configuration files.
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) was developed by AWS and comes with AWS configuration and
operational best practices built-in. It's integrated with both AWS and third-party tools, such as Amazon ECR and
Docker. This integration accelerates the development time of teams to focus on building applications and not
the environment.
The other orchestration option is to use Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) which uses the
Kubernetes system to manage containers. Kubernetes is an open-source system that automates the
management, scaling, and deployment of containerized applications. Amazon EKS is suitable for AWS customers
who run Kubernetes clusters on-premises that want the same orchestration tools in the cloud.
AWS customers can also opt to run different container orchestration services by using Amazon EC2 instances
and installing and managing the orchestration service in the same way as they would on-premises.
Both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS clusters can create compute nodes using Amazon EC2 instances or use AWS
Fargate nodes. Alternatively, a cluster can have both Amazon EC2 instance nodes and Fargate nodes. While EC2
instance nodes run inside the customer VPC, Fargate nodes are managed by AWS in the AWS Fargatevirtual
private cloud (VPC). Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS each have an Anywhere feature to deploy clusters in an on-
premises environment.
=== Page 47 ===
AWS Lambda can also be used to launch containers using up to 10 GB of memory. AWS Lambda
functions aren’t managed by a container orchestration service. Be sure to do a cost comparison to
select the most cost effective solution when choosing between AWS Lambda, Amazon ECS, AWS
Fargate, or Amazon EKS.
=== Page 48 ===
Benefits of AWS Fargate
No cluster or server Suitable for teams
Per second billing Automatic scaling
management new to containers
• No server Only pay for what you Dynamically scale AWS Fargate usage
provisioning or use. tasks based on CPU, doesn’t require
maintenance. memory, or other comprehensive
• No cluster packing metrics. knowledge of
optimization. container technology.
AWS Fargate lets you run containers without the overhead of managing servers or container clusters. With AWS
Fargate, you don’t have to provision, configure, or scale clusters of virtual machines to run containers. This
removes the need to choose server types, decide when to scale your clusters, or optimize cluster packing for
efficiency. AWS Fargate provides per second billing so that you can use compute as you need it. This ensures
that no unused memory or CPU resources are consumed. Automatic scaling is the ability to increase or
decrease the desired count of tasks in your Amazon ECS service automatically. You can control AWS Fargate
scaling with Amazon ECS capacity providers. The capacity provider decides how tasks are spread across the
cluster’s capacity providers. AWS Fargate has scaling and security built in, which makes it suitable for teams that
are just getting started with container technology and are unfamiliar with cluster processes.
=== Page 49 ===
Deploying and invoking containers on Amazon ECS
Before you can deploy a container using Amazon ECS, you have to create an ECS cluster. An ECS cluster consists
of compute nodes on a compute platform such as AWS Fargate and Amazon EC2.
To deploy containers, you create an ECS task definition as a blueprint for your application. Tasks are the smallest
unit of compute in Amazon ECS andprovide a set of containers that you want to place together, their
properties, and how they might be linked. Tasks include all the information that Amazon ECS needs to make the
placement decision of which host to use to deploy containers. To launch a single container, your task definition
should only include one container definition. It’s a text file in JSON format that describes the parameters and
one or more containers that form your application. Some of the parameters that you can specify in a task
definition are the container image for each container in the task, the task or container CPU and memory, and
the task launch type to determine the compute service.
After you create a task definition, you can run the task definition as a task or as a service. When a task is run, it
results in a number of deployed containers within a cluster. Amazon ECS can manage multiple tasks as a service.
An Amazon ECS service runs and maintains your desired number of tasks simultaneously in an Amazon ECS
cluster to ensure high availability. If any of your tasks fail or stop for any reason, the Amazon ECS service
launches another instance based on your task definition to replace the failed task.
For example, when a front-end application wants to use the container service, an Application Load Balancer can
be configured in a service to distribute requests to containers. An Application Load Balancer makes routing
decisions at the application layer (HTTP/HTTPS), supports path-based routing, and can route requests to one or
more ports on each container instance in your cluster.
In the example above, task definition 1 specifies container image 1, which will run as a task deploying Fargate
container 1 on node 1. Task definition 2, on the other hand, specifies container image 1 and container image 2.
It will be deployed as service deploying Fargate container 2 on Fargate node 2 and EC2 instance node containers
3 and 4 on the EC2 instance node. Service 2 also specified an Application Load Balancer to invoke the service
containers from front-end applications based on the URL path. For example, if the Login container implemented
a Login microservice, then the Application Load Balancer can have a listener rule forwarding the /api/login path
to the Login microservice.
=== Page 50 ===
Deploying and invoking containers on Amazon EKS
Before you can deploy a container using Amazon EKS, you have to create an Amazon EKS cluster. The cluster
consists of a set of worker machines called nodes. You can create an Amazon EKS cluster with AWS Fargate and
Amazon EC2 instance nodes.
Kubernetes orchestrations use Pods as the smallest unit of deployment and don’t interact directly with the
container. A Pod can be used to deploy a single container or multiple containers that are dependent on one
another. A single Pod can be deployed with a PodSpec, which specifies which container image to use. To deploy
multiple highly available Pods, you can create a Deployment, which owns a ReplicaSet. The Deployment is
responsible for keeping the number of Pods running as specified in the ReplicaSet.
To enable Pods to communicate or provide other applications to access to Pods, you can create a Kubernetes
Service. A Service uses Pod labels to route network requests to available Pods with the same label.
In the example above, the PodSpec specifying container image 1 is used to deploy Pod 1 containing container 1.
The Deployment specifies container image 1 and container image 2 and uses the ReplicaSet to deploy Pod 2.
Pod 2 contains container 2 and container 3. Both Pod 1 and Pod 2 use the Service to accept and send request
and responses from the front-end application.
=== Page 51 ===
Choosing between Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS
Topic Amazon ECS Amazon EKS
Simplifies cluster creation and Provides more control over cluster
Complexity
maintenance using a complex interface
Manual configuration of autoscaling
Scaling Automated scaling based on demand
groups
Toolset Amazon ECS toolset Kubernetes toolset
Familiar with Kubernetes cluster
Team experience New to container cluster architecture
architecture and control processes
Amazon ECS delivers an AWS-opinionated solution for running containers at scale. It reduces the time it takes
customers to build, deploy, or migrate their containerized applications successfully. Designed for simplicity from
the start, using Amazon ECS decreases the number of decisions customers must make around compute,
network, and security configurations, without sacrificingscale or features.
Amazon EKS provides theflexibilityof Kubernetes with the security and resiliency of being an AWS managed
service that’s optimized for customers building highly available services. Amazon EKS provides a secure, reliable,
scalable, and resilient Kubernetes environment for customers.
Choosing which service to use for container orchestration depends on the development and maintenance team
requirements. If the team requires a simpler interface and less control over the cluster, then Amazon ECS would
be the preferred service. It provides native AWS to AWS service integration and automated scaling based on
demand. This benefits a team that’s new to container cluster architecture and doesn’t have Kubernetes
experience.
=== Page 52 ===
Demo: Running a • This demonstration uses Amazon Elastic
Container Container Service.
• In this demonstration, you will see how to
do the following:
• Run a sample application on an Amazon ECS
cluster behind a load balancer.
Find this recorded demo in your online course as part of this module.
=== Page 53 ===
Key takeaways: • Choose a container solution instead of
Building Lambda functions when an application
requires resources exceeding Lambda
microservice
service limits.
applications with
AWS container • Amazon ECR provides a container image
repository service.
services
• Amazon ECS is a container orchestration
service with AWS toolkit.
• Amazon EKS is a container orchestration
service with Kubernetes toolkit.
• AWS Fargate manages serverless cluster
nodes and can be deployed in Amazon
ECS and Amazon EKS clusters.
=== Page 54 ===
Orchestrating microservices with
AWS Step Functions
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section looks at orchestrating services with AWS Step Functions.
=== Page 55 ===
Challenges with microservice applications
Dependencies Error scenarios Microservice coordination
• Handling microservice Handling retries after a • Scaling an application
dependencies timeout or error • Maintaining state for
• Chaining microservices stateless microservices
sequentially or in parallel • Passing data between
microservices
• Monitoring and
troubleshooting
Implementing microservices are not without any challenges. Handling thousands of microservices that have
dependencies on other microservices, handling error scenarios, and coordinating microservices can be difficult
to do.
As your application grows in size, the number of components increases and many patterns of which tasks to run
and in what order are possible. Consider a microservice application that’s built by using Lambda functions, for
example. You might want to invoke a Lambda function immediately after another function, and only if the first
function runs successfully. You might want two functions to be invoked in parallel and then feed the combined
results into a third function. Or, you might want to choose which of two functions is invoked based on the
output of another function.
Function invocation can result in an error for several reasons. Your code might raise an exception, time out, or
run out of memory. The runtime that runs your code might encounter an error and stop. When an error occurs,
your code might have run completely, partially, or not at all. In most cases, the client or service that invokes
your function retries if it encounters an error, so your code must be able to process the same event repeatedly
without unwanted effects. If your function manages resources or writes to a database, you must handle cases
where the same request is made several times.
You need a way to coordinate the components of your application. This coordination layer must be able to scale
automatically in response to changing application workloads and be able to handle errors and timeouts. It must
also maintain the state of your application while it is running, such as tracking which step is currently running
and storing data that’s moving between the steps of your workflow. These features help you build and operate
your applications. You also want visibility into your application so that you can troubleshoot errors and track
performance.
=== Page 56 ===
AWS Step Functions
•Is a serverless orchestration service to
manage workflows between multiple AWS
services
•Has state machines (workflows) that contain
a series of event-driven states (steps)
•Manages each workflow’s state, checkpoints,
and restarts
Step
•Provides error handling capability
Functions
•Can transfer data between states
•States can filter and manipulate data
AWS Step Functions is a serverless orchestration service that enables you to coordinate components of
distributed applications and microservices by using visual workflows. With Step Functions, you can build an
application’s state machine (workflow) as a series of event-driven states (steps).
Step Functions provides a reliable way to coordinate components and go through the functions of your
application. Step Functions offers a graphical console so that you can visualize the components of your
application as a series of steps. It automatically triggers and tracks each step, and it also retries when there are
errors, so your application runs in order and as expected. Step Functions logs the state of each step, so you can
diagnose and debug problems efficiently. You can restart a workflow from the point of failure.
It is possible to pass input data into a state machine and get result data back as a synchronous response. State
machines have the capability to pass data from one state to the next. A state can filter the data or add result
data to the input data to pass on to the next state.
Step Functions state machines can be invoked from AWS services such as Amazon API Gateway, Amazon
EventBridge, AWS Lambda, and other state machines running in Step Functions. You can usenested state
machinesto reduce the complexity of your main workflows and to reuse common processes.
=== Page 57 ===
Standard or Express Workflow types
Topic Standard Workflows Express Workflows
Duration Long-running Short-running with no activities
Run metrics Full history in the console Results in CloudWatch Logs
Processing Asynchronous Synchronous and asynchronous
Synchronous: At-least-once
Run model Exactly-once
Asynchronous: At-most-once
State machine No persisted state on every state
Persisted on every state transition
progress transition
Charged based on the number of
Charged based on the number of
Pricing requests for workflow and its
state transitions
duration
Step Functions has two workflow types. Standard Workflows have exactly-once workflow execution and can
currently run for up to 1 year. This means that each step in a Standard Workflow will execute exactly once.
Express Workflows, however, have at-least-once workflow execution for synchronous workflows and at-most-
once for asynchronous workflows. Express Workflows can currently run for up to five minutes. This means that
one or more steps in an Express Workflow can potentially run more than once.
Standard Workflows are ideal for long-running, auditable workflows because they show execution history and
visual debugging. An example of a long-running workflow would be a customer order fulfillment which can take
a number of days. Express Workflows are ideal for high-event-rate workloads, such as streaming data processing
and IoT data ingestion.
Asynchronous Express Workflowsreturn confirmation that the workflow started, but don't wait for the
workflow to complete. To get the result, you must poll the service’s Amazon CloudWatch logs. You can use
Asynchronous Express Workflows when you don't require immediate response output, such as messaging
services or data processing that other services don't depend on.
Synchronous Express Workflowsstart a workflow, wait until it completes, and then return a result. This allows
developers to quickly receive the workflow response without needing to poll additional services or write
additional code. This is useful for high-volume microservice orchestration and fast compute tasks that
communicate through HTTPS as used in most customer-facing applications. With Synchronous Express
Workflows, you can develop applications without the need to develop additional code to handle errors, retries,
or run parallel tasks.
Even when a production workflow might be best suited to Express Workflows, developers have found it helpful
to debug the workflow using Standard Workflows. The reason is that Standard Workflows have a visual
representation of errors and the execution history that provides easy-to-access details about each run or each
step in the run. After you have the workflow working as desired, if the workload is more suitable to an Express
Workflow, you can copy the Standard Workflow to an Express Workflow.
Standard Workflows are charged based on the number of state transitions that are required to execute your
=== Page 58 ===
application.Express Workflows are charged based on the number of requests for your workflow and
its duration.
=== Page 59 ===
Step Functions use cases
Microservice
Data processing Machine learning (ML) Security automation
orchestrations
Step Functions state machines can be utilized whenever a workflow is needed. In AWS, we see customers using
Step Functions frequently for microservice orchestrations, data processing, machine learning, and security
automation.
Step Functions gives you several ways to manage your microservice workflows. For long-running workflows, you
can use Standard Workflows with the AWS Fargate integration to orchestrate applications running in containers.
For short-duration, high-volume workflows that require an immediate response,Synchronous Express
Workflowsare ideal. These can be used for web-based or mobile applications, which often have workflows of
short duration and require the completion of a series of steps before they return a response. You can directly
initiate Synchronous Express Workflows from Amazon API Gateway, and the connection is held open until the
workflow completes or timeouts. For short duration workflows that don’t require an immediate response, Step
Functions provides Asynchronous Express Workflows.
Step Functions provides the scalability, reliability, and availability needed to successfully manage your data
processing workflows. You can manage millions of concurrent executions with Step Functions because it scales
horizontally and provides fault-tolerant workflows. Process Step Functions data faster using parallel executions,
likeits Parallelstate type, or dynamic parallelism using itsMapstate type. As part of your workflow, you can use
theMapstate to iterate over objects in a static data store like an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
bucket. Step Functions also lets you retry failed executions or choose a specific way to handle errors without
the need to manage a complex process.
Step Functions lets you to orchestrate end-to-end machine learning (ML) workflows on Amazon SageMaker.
These workflows can include data preprocessing including data enrichment, post-processing, feature
engineering, data validation, and model evaluation.
Security automation can help manage increasingly complex and time-consuming operations, such as upgrading
and patching software, deploying security updates to address vulnerabilities, selecting infrastructure,
synchronizing data, routing support tickets, and more. The automation of repetitive and time-consuming tasks
can allow your organization to complete routine operations quickly and consistently on a large scale. Step
Functions allows you to create workflows that automatically scale to meet the needs of your business without
=== Page 60 ===
requiring manual intervention. In cases where an error occurs in your workflow, it often doesn’t
require manual intervention. Step Functions lets you automatically retry failed tasks andhas an
exponential backoff that can manage errors in your workflow.
=== Page 61 ===
Workflow state coordination
Task A
try{…}
catch{…}
finally{…}
Manage errors with
try-catch-finally
Run tasks in sequence Run tasks in parallel
Select task based on data Process data record tasks Retry failed tasks
in parallel
AWS Step Functions manages the logic of your application for you.Itimplements coordinations, such as running
tasks sequentially or in parallel, branching, and timeouts. This technique removes extra code that might be
repeated in your microservices and functions.Step Functions automatically handles errors and exceptions with
built-in try-catch and retry, whether the task takes seconds or months to complete. You can automatically retry
failed or timed-out tasks. You can respond differently to different types of errors and recover gracefully by
falling back to designated cleanup and recovery code.
=== Page 62 ===
State machine state (step) types
Work states Transition states Stop states
• Task:Integrates with • Choice:Adds conditions • Success:Stops state
AWS services to control flow to next machine and marks
• Activity: Performs a state execution as successful
task hosted anywhere • Parallel:Adds branches • Fail:Stops state
• Pass:Passes or filters of nested state machine and marks
input data to next state machines inside a state execution as failed
• Wait:Delays workflow machine • State has the end
for a specified time • Map:Separates parameter: Stops state
workflow for each data machine
• State has wait for
record in data set that
callback state option:
runs in parallel
Pauses workflow and
waits for callback
State machine state (step) types can be classified as work, transition, or stop states.
Work states include task, activity, pass, and wait states. A task state represents a unit of work that another AWS
service, such as AWS Lambda, performs. Alternatively, a task can call an HTTP endpoint. A task state handles
AWS service integrations and can call any AWS service or API supported by Step Functions first-class AWS
service integrations and the AWS SDK. The task can integrate synchronously with a request response invocation
type, run a job, and wait for the job to complete. A task can optionally call a service with a task token and wait
for a callback that includes the token and a payload.
Activities are tasks in your state machine where the work is performed by a workerthat can be
hostedanywhere. An activity worker can be an application running on an Amazon EC2 instance, an AWS Lambda
function, a mobile device, or any application that can make an HTTP connection.Similar to a task, an activity
can optionally call a service or HTTP endpoint with a task token and wait for a callback that includes the token
and a payload.
A pass state passes its input to its output without performing work. Passstates are useful when constructing
and debugging state machines. You can also use apassstate to transform JSON state input using filters, and
then pass the transformed data to the next state in your workflow. A waitstate delays the state machine from
continuing for a specified time. You can choose either a relative time, specified in seconds from when the state
begins, or an absolute end time, specified as a timestamp.
Transition states control the flow of the state machine determining which state to run next. A choicestate adds
conditional logic to a state machine. It contains an array ofchoice rulesthat determine which state the state
machine transitions to next. You use a comparison operator in a choice rule to compare an input variable with a
specific value. For example, using choice rules, you can compare whether an input variable is greater than or
less than 50. Theparallelstate can be used to add separate branches of nested state machines inside a state
machine. Use themapstate to run a set of workflow steps for each item in a dataset. Themapstate's iterations
run in parallel, which makes it possible to process a dataset quickly. Mapstates can use a variety of input types,
including a JSON array, a list of Amazon S3 objects, or a CSV file.
=== Page 63 ===
Stop states ends the state machine run. A state can contain the end parameter which ends the run,
or the success and fail states can be used when recording whether the run was successful or not.
=== Page 64 ===
Defining a state machine with Amazon State Language
“StartAt” specifies the first state to
run "StartAt": "1 Task state",
"Comment": "Sample state machine",
States are a list of all the states "States": {
in state machine “1 Task state” is a work task state
"1 Task state": { invoking a Lambda function
"Type": "Task",
"Resource": "arn:aws:states:::lambda:invoke",
"Parameters": {
"FunctionName": "ALambdaFunction"
Next is a pointer to next state to run
"Next": "2 Success state"
“2 Success state” is a stop success
"2 Success state": {
state that ends the state machine
"Type": "Succeed"
A Step Function state machine is a collection of states defined in the Amazon States Language. Amazon States
Language is a JSON-based, structured language used to define the state machine and the collection of states to
run. A state machine uses key-value pairs to specify the fields and values of the state machine and always
specifies which state to run first.
A state machine always contains a StartAt field with the name of the state to point to the first state to run. The
States field contains a collection of nested JSON documents specifying the states in the state machine. Each
state has a name used as an identifier and contains a state type in the Type field. Each state type has a set of
mandatory and optional fields.
A state should include the Next field if control is to be passed to another state. Choice states has multiple Next
fields for each choice rule.
If a state is the last state to be run in the state machine, it should include the End field. Alternatively, control can
be passed to a success state or a failed state to end the state machine run.
=== Page 65 ===
Example: Step Functions Standard Workflow state machine
This is an example of a stock trade Step Functions state machine. The first task to run is a Lambda function that
returns the stock company identifier, the number of stocks, current stock price, and total trade amount. It’s
passed to the first choice state which checks whether there’s a recommended stock trade. If not, the state
machine transitions to the success state and ends.
If there is a recommended trade, then control is passed to the Human approval required choice state. The
choice state rule can check whether the total trade amount exceeds a limit, like $100.00.
If yes, it continues to the Request human approval task, which invokes Amazon Simple Notification Service
(Amazon SNS) to request approval by sending an email to the approver with a task token. When the approver
approves or denies the request, a callback is the token, and the response is returned to the Request human
approval task state. It passes the result to the Trade approved choice state. If not approved, control is passed to
the Trade not approved fail state and the run ends.
If the trade was approved, then control is passed to the Trade stock transaction Lambda task state. It returns the
transaction result and passes control to the Was transaction successful choice state. If not, then control is
passed to the Trade unsuccessful fail state and the run ends. If the transaction was successful, then control is
passed to the Trade successful state and the run ends.
=== Page 66 ===
Key takeaways: • AWS Step Functions is a serverless
Orchestrating orchestration service to manage workflows
between multiple AWS services.
microservice
• A state machine (workflow) is a series of
workflows with
event-driven states (steps).
AWS Step
• A Step Functions state machine is a
Functions
collection of states defined in the Amazon
States Language.
• States can be grouped into work, transition,
and stop states.
• A task state can invoke an AWS service or
request an activity hosted on any compute
service with an HTTP connection.
=== Page 67 ===
Extending serverless architectures
with Amazon API Gateway
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section looks at extending serverless architectures with Amazon API Gateway and decomposing a
monolithic application into microservices.
=== Page 68 ===
Benefits of APIs
Standardize app Monetize API and track
Protect microservices
communication statistics
• Connect software apps • Choose whether to • Track client usage for
written in different require authorization. billing purposes.
languages in a • Check request formats. • Supply usage statistics
standardized way. • Throttle the number of per client.
• Hide implementation requests.
complexity.
• Restrict resource access.
Earlier in this module, you learned that microservices communicate through well-defined APIs. So why are APIs
considered to be a best practice for microservices?
APIs act as a bridge or intermediary to connect applications written in different languages with different data
type formats. An API usually provides documentation on how to use the API and about the client application’s
needs to format the API request correctly. The benefit is that the client application making the request doesn’t
need to understand the complexity or technical details of the microservice implementation.
A microservice is designed to run and scale rapidly. Therefore, it’s a good practice to protect a microservice
from bad actors. An API can implement authorization mechanisms to ensure that only authenticated
applications access the microservice. In addition, the API can check the client request format and return an
error if the format is incorrect. The API can also be configured to throttle the number of API requests if there’s a
limitation on the microservice resources. An API can also restrict access to microservice resources to allow only
limited actions on the resource.
An API is also a convenient place to collect client usage data points to analyze how the microservices are
utilized. If required, the usage can translate into monetization because the client with preferential usage can pay
for the prioritized usage.
=== Page 69 ===
Amazon API Gateway
• Provides ability to create, publish, and maintain
REST, HTTP, and WebSocket APIs
• Configurable traffic management,
authorization, and resource access control
• Provides access to AWS services and publicly
accessible endpoints
• Hosts multiple versions and stages of an
application’s API
API
Gateway • Establishes client usage plans to monetize and
control APIs
• Can cache common responses
Amazon API Gateway is a fully managed service that enables you to create, publish, maintain, monitor, and
secure APIs at any scale. You can use it to create Representational State Transfer (RESTful) and WebSocket APIs
that act as an entry point for applications so they can access backend resources. You can build RESTful APIs
using both HTTP APIs and REST APIs in Amazon API Gateway. Applications can then access data, business logic,
or functionality from your backend services. Backend services can be applications that run on Amazon Elastic
Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), code that runs on AWS Lambda or Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon
ECS), private applications in a virtual private cloud (VPC) or on-premises, and publicly accessible endpoints. You
can also integrate API Gateway directly with some AWS services, such as sending data directly to an Amazon
Kinesis stream, AWS Step Functions workflows, or an Amazon DynamoDB database.
API Gateway handles all the tasks that are involved in accepting and processing up to hundreds of thousands of
concurrent API requests. API Gateway has features to handle traffic management, authorization and access
control, monitoring, and API version management. API Gateway is integrated with Amazon Cognito for
authorization and allows Lambda function plug-ins for customized authorization solutions.
You can use API Gateway to host multiple versions and stages for different development and production
environments of your APIs. Usage plans help you declare plans for third-party developers that restrict access
only to certain APIs, define throttling and request quota limits, and associate them with API keys. You can also
extract utilization data on a per-API key basis to analyze API usage and generate billing documents. For example,
you can create a plan to only allow 1,000 requests per day and a maximum of 5 requests per second (RPS).
You can enable API caching in Amazon API Gateway to cache your endpoint's responses. With caching, you can
reduce the number of calls made to your endpoint and also improve the latency of requests to your API.
=== Page 70 ===
Choosing an API type
REST APIs HTTP APIs WebSocket APIs
• Collection of routes and • Collection of routes and • Collection of WebSocket
methods methods routes
• For apps that require API • For microservices • For real-time
management features, • Lower latency and applications
such as usage plans, lower cost than REST • Establishes a session
payload validation, APIs between client and
private API endpoints,
• Supports CORS backend services
and resource policies
• Stateless • API management
• Supports cross-origin
features are validate
resource sharing (CORS)
payload schema and
• Stateless data transformations
• Stateful
Amazon API Gateway offers two options to create RESTful APIs, namely HTTP and REST APIs, and an option to
create WebSocket APIs. Choosing which API type is most suitable for your application depends on the API
behavior you require.
RESTful APIs are useful in cloud applications because their calls are stateless. If something fails, stateless
components can smoothly redeploy and scale to accommodate load changes. RESTful APIs are made up of a
collection of routes and methods for application resources. Methods are HTTP verbs such as GET, POST, PUT,
PATCH, and DELETE that corresponds to data create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) actions. For example, a
request with a POST method and path /class-roster with student information as parameters will add a student
to a class-roster. A GET method with path /class-roster will return all the students registered for the class.
API Gateways REST APIs offer API proxy functionality and an extensive set of API management features in a
single solution.REST APIs uses usage plans that allocate API keys to clients to track API usage for billing
purposes and control usage limits with throttling. You can also validate incoming requests against a request
payload schema and do limited data transformations to match backend data formats. REST APIs allows private
API endpoints to API Gateway which is only accessible from a private subnet in a customer VPC. You can use API
Gateway resource policies to allow your API to be securely invoked users from a specified AWS account,
specified source IP address ranges or CIDR blocks, or specified VPCs in any account. So API Gateway REST APIs
are particularly suitable when you need an extensive set of API management features.
HTTP APIs are optimized for building serverless workload APIs that proxy to AWS Lambda functions or HTTP
backends. They are lightweight and provide improved performance over REST APIs with lower latency. HTTP
APIs also provide a better price point than REST APIs because they do not offer API management functionality.
This makes HTTP APIs suitable for microservice implementation using Lambda functions and Amazon ECS
containers that need low latency responses.
WebSocket APIs maintain a persistent connection between connected clients to enable real-time message
communication. In a WebSocket API, the client and the server can both send messages to each other at any
time. Backend servers can easily push data to connected users and devices, avoiding the need to implement
complex polling mechanisms. For example, you could build a serverless application using an API Gateway
=== Page 71 ===
WebSocket API and AWS Lambda to send and receive messages to and from individual users or
groups of users in a chat room in the same domain.
Both REST APIs and HTTP APIs support cross-origin resource sharing (CORS). CORS is typically
required to build web applications that access APIs hosted on a different domain or origin. You can
enable CORS to allow requests to your API from a web application that’s hosted on a different
domain.
=== Page 72 ===
API Gateway backend integrations
Because API Gateway is designed to act as a bridge between applications, it supports many backend
integrations. As you learned in the microservices section of this module, API Gateway and AWS Lambda can
function as a microservice making use of Amazon Cognito for microservice authorization.
An HTTP proxy integration enables you to connect an API route to a publicly routable HTTP endpoint. With this
integration type, API Gateway passes the entire request and response between the frontend and the backend.
To create an HTTP proxy integration, provide the URL of a publicly routable HTTP endpoint.
You can integrate your HTTP API with AWS services by using first-class integrations. A first-class integration
connects an HTTP API route to an AWS service API. When a client invokes a route that's backed by a first-class
integration, API Gateway invokes an AWS service API for you. For example, you can use first-class integrations to
send a message to an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue or to start an AWS Step Functions
state machine.
If your application solution is using AWS services or load balancers in your VPC, Amazon API Gateway can be
configured with a VPC link. For REST APIs, a VPC link provides access to a Network Load Balancer in a VPC. For
HTTP APIs, a VPC link can provide access to a Network Load Balancer, an Application Load Balancer, and other
AWS services in a VPC, such as Amazon EC2 instances and Amazon ECS containers.
=== Page 73 ===
Activity: Choose the appropriate Amazon API
Decomposing a Gateway API and AWS service or services to
Monolithic decompose an online shopping monolithic
Application with application into services. The following are
AWS API Gateway the components of the monolithic
shopping application:
• Shopping cart
• Payments
•Delivery
This is an instructor-led activity to discuss various options for decomposing an online shopping monolithic
application into microservices.
=== Page 74 ===
Decomposing a monolithic application into microservices or
workflows with API Gateway
Monolithic application Service applications
Shopping
Shopping cart service
cart
Payment Payment service
Delivery Delivery service
Monolithic application module functionality is as follows:
Shopping cart: Online customer adds, removes, or updates the number of items in the shopping cart with a
required response time of single digit seconds.
Payments: Online customer finalizes shopping cart and pays for the number of items in the shopping cart. The
payment system should be ported as-is from the on-premises solution with minimal code and configuration
changes.
Delivery: When the payment is successful, the shopping cart items must be delivered to the customer. This
process might take up to 5 days, and the customer should be notified when delivery is made.
Refer to the API Gateway backend integrations page to choose the appropriate API Gateway API and AWS
services for each microservice or workflow.
=== Page 75 ===
Solution: Shopping cart microservice
For this solution, an Amazon API Gateway HTTP API was chosen to provide AWS Lambda function and Amazon
ECS container integration.
The shopping cart service consists of small, millisecond transactions. Use Amazon API Gateway shopping
website HTTP API service to route shopping cart requests to the AWS Lambda shopping cart function. Shopping
cart transactions are stored on the Amazon DynamoDB shopping cart table. This solution will satisfy the
performance requirement of single digit second response times.
=== Page 76 ===
Solution: Payment microservice
Because the payment system is ported from the on-premises environment with minimum code and
configuration changes, porting it to ECS payment containers would be a suitable solution. To distribute the
payment transactions, the Application Load Balancer receives the payment requests from API Gateway
shopping website HTTP API. The Application Load Balancer distributes transactions to containers, which uses a
publicly accessible banking API for payment authorization. The containers store the payments on the
DynamoDB payment table.
=== Page 77 ===
Solution: Delivery workflow service
Because delivery is process that can take multiple days to complete, this is not a microservice, and it would be
better suited as a longer running workflow service.
After successful payment, the Amazon API Gateway HTTP API receives a delivery call and forwards the request
to the AWS Step Functions Standard Workflow delivery state machine. The state machine puts the delivery
request on an Amazon SQS delivery queue and suspends the state machine. The inventory and delivery API polls
the queue and picks up the delivery request. Upon delivery, the inventory and delivery API does a callback to
the delivery state machine. Control is passed to the choice state Order delivered. If the order was delivered, the
delivery state machine updates the DynamoDB delivery table with a delivered status and sends an email
notification to the customer using Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS). The state machine ends
with execution marked as successful.
If the order was not delivered, the delivery state machine updates the DynamoDB delivery table with a
cancelled status and sends an email cancellation to the customer using Amazon SNS. The next state puts a
request payment refund on an Amazon SQS refund queue, and the state machine ends with execution marked
as unsuccessful.
Please note, this is just a generic solution, and there are many different viable solutions depending on the
actual scale and capacity that’s required.
=== Page 78 ===
Key takeaways: • Amazon API Gateway provides the ability
Extending to create, publish, and maintain
serverless application APIs.
architectures with
• It provides access to AWS services and
Amazon API
publicly accessible endpoints.
Gateway
• Use REST APIs when full API management
and control are required.
• Use HTTP APIs when lower latency and
lower cost than REST APIs are required.
• Use WebSocket APIs for real-time
applications that require an active session.
=== Page 79 ===
Guided lab: Breaking a Monolithic
Node.js Application into
Microservices (Microservices lab)
This is an optional lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the detailed
instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 80 ===
Microservices lab • In this lab, you will do the following:
tasks:
• Migrate a monolithic Node.js application to run
in a Docker container.
• Refactor a Node.js application from a
monolithic design to a microservices
architecture.
• Deploy a containerized Node.js microservices
application to Amazon ECS.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 81 ===
Debrief: Microservices lab
• How did you deploy the containerized monolithic application to an
Amazon ECS runtime environment?
• What did you learn about task definitions in this lab?
=== Page 82 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to microservices
and serverless architectures
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section looks at how to apply the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles to serverless architectures,
including microservices.
=== Page 83 ===
AWS Well-Architected Serverless Applications Lens
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practices from the pillars that are most relevant to this module. Find the complete set of best practices by pillar
on the Well-Architected Framework website. A link is provided in the content resources section of your online
course.
AWS provides a specialized Serverless Applications Lensfor theAWS Well-Architected Framework that covers
common serverless applications scenarios and identifies key elements to ensure that yourworkloads are
architected according to best practices. For more information, see the Serverless Applications Lens –AWS Well-
Architected Framework link in the content resources section.
=== Page 84 ===
Best practice approach: Failure management
Best practices
Use a dead-letter queue mechanism
to retain, investigate, and retry
failed transactions.
Roll back failed transactions.
Certain parts of a serverless application are dictated by asynchronous calls to various components in an event-
driven fashion, such as by publish and subscribe and other patterns. When asynchronous calls fail, they should
be captured and retried whenever possible. Otherwise, data loss can occur, resulting in a degraded customer
experience.
Dead-letter queue mechanism: Use a dead-letter queue mechanism to retain, investigate, and retry failed
transactions. AWS Lambdaallows failed transactions to be sent to a dedicatedAmazon Simple Queue Service
(Amazon SQS)dead-letter queue on a per function basis.
Amazon Kinesis Data StreamsandAmazon DynamoDB Streamsretry the entire batch of items. Repeated errors
block processing of the affected shard until the error is resolved or the items expire. WithinAWS Lambda, you
can configurecontrols to retry while processing data records, and effectively remove poison-pill messages from
the batch by sending its metadata to anAmazon SQSdead-letter queue for further analysis.
Roll back failed transactions: For synchronous parts that are transaction-based and depend on certain
guarantees and requirements, rolling back failed transactions can be achieved by using AWS Step Functions
state machines, which will decouple and simplify the logic of your application.
In this module, you learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices, including AWS
Lambda and Amazon API Gateway.
=== Page 85 ===
Best practice approach: Identity and access management
Best practices
Control access to your serverless
API.
Control access to your serverless
application.
APIs are often targeted by attackers because of the operations that they can perform and the valuable data that
they can obtain. There are various security best practices to defend against these attacks.
Control access to your serverless API: From an authentication and authorization perspective, there are
mechanisms to authorize an API call within API Gateway, such as Amazon Cognito user pools, API Gateway
Lambda authorizer, and API Gateway resource policies. It’s important to understand whether and how any of
these mechanisms are implemented.
Manage security boundaries of your serverless application: With Lambda functions, it’s recommended that
you follow least-privileged access and only allow the access needed to perform a given operation. Attaching a
role with more permissions than necessary can open up your systems for abuse. With the security context,
having smaller functions that perform scoped activities contribute to a more well-architected serverless
application.
In this module, you learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices, including AWS
Lambda, Amazon Cognito, and API Gateway.
=== Page 86 ===
Best practice approach: Data protection
Best practice
Encrypt data in transit and at rest.
Implement application security in
your workload.
Malformed or intercepted input can be used as an attack vector which could gain access to a system or cause a
malfunction. Sensitive data should be protected at all times in all layers possible, as discussed in detail in
theAWS Well-Architected Framework. The recommendations in that whitepaper still apply here.
Encrypt data in transit and at rest: With regard to API Gateway, sensitive data should be either encrypted at the
client-side before making its way as part of an HTTP request or sent as a payload as part of an HTTP POST
request. That also includes encrypting any headers that might contain sensitive data prior to making a given
request. Concerning Lambda functions or any integrations that API Gateway might be configured with, sensitive
data should be encrypted before any processing or data manipulation. This will prevent data leakage if such
data gets exposed in persistent storage or by standard output that’s streamed and persisted by Amazon
CloudWatch Logs.
Lambda functions should persist encrypted data in Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon OpenSearch Service, or
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) along with encryption at rest. It’s strongly advised to not send, log,
and store unencrypted sensitive data, either as part of HTTP request path or query strings or in the standard
output of a Lambda function.
Implement application security in your workload: Validate and sanitize inbound events and perform a security
code review as you normally would for non-serverless applications. For API Gateway, set up basic request
validation as a first step to ensure that the request adheres to the configured JSON-schema request model and
any required parameters in the URL, query string, or headers. Application-specific deep validation should be
implemented, whether that’s as a separate Lambda function, library, framework, or service.
In this module, you learned about a number of AWS services that support these best practices, including AWS
Lambda and API Gateway.
=== Page 87 ===
Best practice approach: Selection
Best practice
Optimize the performance of your
serverless application.
Because serverless application components scale at different rates, it’s important to ensure optimum
performance by testing the application in various manners. Run performance tests on your serverless
application using steady and burst rates. Using the result, try tuning capacity units and the provisioning model,
and load test after changes to help you select the best configuration.
Optimize the performance of your serverless application: With Amazon API Gateway, you can use edge
endpoints for geographically dispersed customers. Use regional endpoints for regional customers and when
using other AWS services within the same Region. With AWS Lambda, you can test different memory settings
because CPU, network, and storage IOPS are allocated proportionally. With AWS Step Functions, you should test
Standard and Express Workflows and look at the per second rates for execution start rate and state transition
rate.
In this module, you learned about a number of AWS services that support this best practice, including AWS
Lambda, API Gateway, and Step Functions.
=== Page 88 ===
Best practice approach: Cost-effective resources
Best practice
Optimize application cost.
Serverless architectures are easier to manage in terms of correct resource allocation. Due to its pay-per-value
pricing model and scale based on demand, serverless effectively reduces the capacity planning effort.
Optimize application cost: Because Lambda proportionally allocates CPU, network, and storage IOPS based on
memory, the faster the initiation, the cheaper and more value your function produces due to 1-ms billing
incremental dimension.
=== Page 89 ===
Best practice approach: Optimizing over time
Best practice
Use direct AWS service integrations.
AWS services such as Amazon EventBridge, Amazon API Gateway, AWS Step Functions, and AWS Lambda can
collectively integrate with almost all AWS services. Putting together a serverless architecture requires careful
planning to ensure that you selected only the required services needed.
Use direct AWS service integrations: If your Lambda function isn’t performing custom logic while integrating
with other AWS services, chances are that it might be unnecessary. API Gateway, Step Functions, EventBridge,
and Lambda destinations can directly integrate with a number of services and provide you more value and less
operational overhead.
As an example, you can implement click stream ingestion data with a client using API Gateway to run a Lambda
function which puts the request on an Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose stream to deliver it to an Amazon S3
bucket. A more cost effective solution would be to directly put the clickstream data on the Amazon Kinesis Data
Firehose stream from the client. In this manner, API Gateway and the Lambda function costs are saved.
In this module, you learned about a number of AWS services that support this best practice, including API
Gateway and Step Functions.
=== Page 90 ===
Key takeaways: • Use a dead-letter queue mechanism to retain,
investigate, and retry failed transactions.
Applying AWS
Well-Architected • Roll back failed transactions.
Framework to • Control access to your serverless API.
serverless • Control access to your serverless application.
architecture
• Encrypt data in transit and at rest.
• Implement application security in your workload.
• Optimize the performance of your serverless
application.
• Optimize application cost.
• Use direct AWS service integrations where
available.
=== Page 91 ===
Café lab: Implementing a Serverless
Architecture for the Café
(Serverless Café lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 92 ===
The evolving café architecture: version 7
Architecture
Business reason for update Technical requirements/ architecture update
Version
V1 Static website for small business. Host the website on Amazon S3.
V2 Add online ordering. Deploy web application and database on Amazon EC2.
V3 Reduce effort to maintain the database Separate web and database layers. Migrate database to
and secure its data. Amazon RDS on a private subnet.
V4 Enhance the security of the web Use Amazon VPC features to configure and secure public
application. and private subnets.
V5 Ensure the website can handle an Add a load balancer, implement auto scaling on the EC2
expected increase in traffic and remain instances and distribute compute and database instances
highly available and resilient to failure. across 2 availability zones.
V6 Consistently deploy, manage, and update Build a version-controlled CloudFormation template to
café resources across Regions. deploy the network and application layers. Deploy the
CloudFormation stack to another Region.
V7 Improve performance and reduce costs Deploy Lambda functions that connect to the Amazon
while supporting reporting requirements. RDS database and generate a report based on a
schedule.
Frank and Martha want to get daily reports via email about all the orders that were placed on the website.
Frank wants to anticipate demand so he can bake the correct number of desserts going forward (reducing
waste). Martha wants to identify any patterns in the café‘s business (analytics). Currently, Sofía has set up a cron
job on the web server instance that sends these daily order report email messages to Frank and Martha.
However, the cronjob is resource-intensive and reduces the performance of the web server.
Olivia advises Sofía and Nikhil that non-business-critical reporting tasks should be kept separate. Sofía and Nikhil
want to further decouple the architecture and move the cronjob into a managed, serverless environment that
will scale well and reduce costs.
=== Page 93 ===
Serverless Café • In this lab, you will do the following:
lab tasks
• Implement a serverless architecture to
generate a daily sales report.
• Open your lab environment to start the
lab and find additional details about the
tasks that you will perform.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 94 ===
Debrief: Serverless Café lab
• When you created the DataExtractor Lambda function, how did you
configure it to extract data from the Amazon RDS database?
• What did you do to configure the salesAnalysisReport function to
run daily at a specified time?
=== Page 95 ===
Module wrap-up
Building Serverless Architectures and Microservices
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 96 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Define serverless architectures.
• Identify the characteristics of microservices.
• Architect a serverless solution with AWS Lambda.
• Define how containers are used in AWS.
• Describe the types of workflows that AWS Step Functions supports.
• Describe a common architecture for Amazon API Gateway.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when building
serverless architectures.
=== Page 97 ===
Considerations for the café
• Discuss how the café lab in this module
answered the key questions and decisions
that were presented at the start of this
module for the café business.
=== Page 98 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on that material that was
presented on the slides and in the slide
notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 99 ===
Sample exam question
What is the most effective use of Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) when refactoring a monolithic
application to use a microservice architecture?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Amazon ECS
• refactoring a monolith
• microservice architecture
The question asks you to consider the solution in terms of Amazon ECS and focuses on breaking down a
monolith into a microservice architecture.
=== Page 100 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
What is the most effective use of Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) when refactoring a monolithic
application to use a microservice architecture?
Choice Response
Create services that each provide a distinct function of the application, and run multiple services in a single container
that Amazon ECS manages.
B Port the application to a new image, and run it in a container that Amazon ECS manages.
C Refactor the application and centralize common functions to create a smaller code footprint.
Create services that each provide a distinct function of the application, and run each service in a separate container that
Amazon ECS manages.
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible responses to
determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 101 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is D.
Choice Response
Create services that each provide a distinct function of the application, and run each service in a separate container that
Amazon ECS manages.
Choice A (Create multiple services in a single container) doesn’t take full advantage of a microservice
architecture.
Choice B (Port the application to a new image) isn’t the best choice. Just porting the application to a container
won’t result in refactoring or take advantage of a microservice architecture.
Choice C (Refactor and centralize common functions) doesn’t align to best practices for microservices.
Microservice architectures decentralize code. Refactoring the monolithic application into a smaller set of
centralized functions doesn’t accomplish the goal of breaking it up into separate, independent services.
Choice D (Create services for distinct functions and run each in a container) is the best choice. The first step in
moving to a microservice architecture is to break up monolithic applications into services that each provide a
more specialized function.
=== Page 102 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.