# Clean Text Extracted from: 15.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:05
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 15 Student Guide
Version 3.0.3
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 15: Data Engineering Patterns 4
=== Page 4 ===
Data Engineering Patterns
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Data Engineering Patterns
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module • This module prepares you to do the
following:
objectives
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework to
generalize the type of architecture that is required
to suit common use cases for data ingestion (batch
and stream).
• Select a data ingestion pattern appropriate to
characteristics of the data (velocity, volume, and
variety).
• Select the appropriate AWS services to ingest and
store data for a given use case.
• Select the appropriate AWS services to optimize
data processing and transformation requirements
for a given use case.
• Identify when to use different types of AWS data
analytics and visualization services based on a given
use case.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Activities
• Data characteristics • Choosing Data Storage for a Bank
Application
• Data pipelines
• Data Pipeline Architecture
• AWS tools to ingest data
Knowledge checks
• Processing batch data
• Processing real-time data • 10-question knowledge check
• Storage in the data pipeline • Sample exam question
• Parallel processing in the data pipeline
• Analysis and visualization
• Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to data pipelines
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections. You will also participate in
activities related to choosing the right architecture for a use case. The module wraps up with a
sample exam question and an online knowledge check that covers the presented material.
=== Page 8 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to evaluate the characteristics of
designing a data available data so that I can choose
architecture: components that suit the data and the
desired business outcomes.
• I need to think about how to store,
organize, and access the data to get the
most value for the business.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to
approach cloud network design. Keep these considerations in mind as you progress through this
module, remembering that the cloud architect should work backward from the business need to
design the best architecture for a specific use case. As you progress through the module,
consider the café scenario presented in the course as an example business need, and think
about how you would address these needs for the fictional café business.
=== Page 9 ===
Data characteristics
Data Engineering Patterns
This section explains how the characteristics of data impact decisions related to designing data
pipelines.
=== Page 10 ===
Data characteristics that drive infrastructure decisions
Consider the data
characteristics together
to make decisions for
each business use case
that you design a data
infrastructure for.
The five Vs of data characteristics are value, veracity, volume, velocity, and variety. They are
shown in a circle because they each impact decision-making. Making decisions about the
infrastructure is not done in a linear way.
=== Page 11 ===
Five Vs of data
Data Characteristics Scope Questions to Consider
Value How processed data can provide insight What insights can be gained from the
into a business problem data?
Veracity How to protect and strengthen the How accurate, precise, and trusted is the
integrity of data data?
Volume How much data you need to process How long do you need to keep the data?
What are the access patterns?
Velocity How quickly data enters and moves How frequently is data generated?
through your pipeline How quickly does the data need to be
acted on?
Variety How many data sources and data types What is the format and type of the data?
you work with What sources does the data come from?
Each of the five characteristics of data refers to a specific aspect of data that impacts the
infrastructure design:
• Value is about ensuring that you are getting the most out of the data that you have collected.
Value is also about ensuring that there is business value in the outputs from collecting,
storing, and processing data.
• Veracity is about the accuracy and trustworthiness of the data. These elements are important
because they are the foundation of the analysis that you do to make decisions. Consider
where your data is coming from and how its integrity can be protected as it goes through the
data pipeline.
• The volume of data impacts the infrastructure of getting the data into the pipeline,
processing the data, and keeping it. How you choose to store your data depends on how
often you want to access and process your data.
• The amount of data and the pace of data drive design choices. The combination of volume
and velocity has a direct impact on how your pipeline needs to be architected.
• Different data types will lend themselves to certain types of processing and analysis. This will
impact how the data gets into the pipeline and the process to prepare it for analysis.
Consider these points as you evaluate the characteristics of data:
• Have the end user in mind as you design the infrastructure and make decisions.
• Value depends on veracity because without good data you could make bad business
decisions.
• Understand the duration of keeping the data and the access frequency to weigh the cost and
benefits of storage.
• Volume and velocity together drive the expected throughput and scaling requirements of
your pipeline. For use cases with equally high volume, the velocity of the arrival of the data
=== Page 12 ===
and the speed with which the data must be processed will impact the pipeline
infrastructure you design.
• Combining datasets can enrich analysis but can also complicate processing.
=== Page 13 ===
Three-pronged strategy to build data infrastructures
Modernize Unify Innovate
Move to a cloud-based Create a single source of Apply artificial
infrastructure and truth for data, and make intelligence and machine
purpose-built services to the data available across learning (AI/ML) to find
reduce undifferentiated the organization. new insights in the data.
lifting.
Now that you are familiar with the data characteristics needed to make business and
infrastructure decisions, consider the overall approach for dealing with data.
The approach for organizations that want to become data driven is to modernize, unify, and
innovate with their data infrastructures:
• Modernizing is about moving to cloud-based infrastructures and purpose-built services to
reduce administrative and operational effort. This will increase agility and reduce
undifferentiated lifting.
• Unifying is about creating a single source of truth for data and making the data available
across the organization. This unifies the best elements of both data lakes and purpose-built
data stores.
• Innovating is about looking for new ways to find value in the data—specifically, applying
artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML) to find new insights. With AI/ML, you can
innovate new experiences and reimagine old processes.
=== Page 14 ===
A solution for a modern data architecture
Centralized location to access data and run analytics and AI/ML applications.
• Integrates a data lake, a data warehouse,
and other purpose-built data stores
• Supports unified access, permissions,
authorization, and seamless data movement
• Provides access to all of the data to make
better decisions with agility
Data lake
Problem: Organizations want to capture all of their data to derive value from it as quickly as
possible. To efficiently analyze all of the data that is spread across the data lake and other data
stores, businesses often move data in and out of the data lake and between these data stores.
This data movement can get complex and messy as the data grows in these data stores.
Solution: The goal of the modern data architecture is to store data in a centralized location and
make it available to all consumers to perform analytics and run AI/ML applications. A modern
data architecture integrates a data lake, a data warehouse, and other purpose-built data stores
while enabling unified governance and seamless data movement. It isn't restricted by separate
data silos. This way, organizations can store their data in a data lake and use purpose-built data
stores that work with the data lake. This approach provides access to all of the data to make
better decisions with agility.
The concept to remember is that the modern data architecture integrates a data lake, a data
warehouse, and other purpose-built data stores while enabling unified governance and
seamless data movement to help an organization get the most value from its data.
=== Page 15 ===
Key takeaways: • Five data characteristics are value, veracity,
Data volume, velocity, and variety.
characteristics • Consider the data characteristics together to
make decisions about the infrastructure
design for each business use case.
• Value and veracity impact accurate insights
that the business needs. Volume and velocity
togetherdrive the expected throughput and
scaling requirements of your pipeline.
• The goal of the modern data architecture is
to store data in a centralized location and
make it available to all consumers to perform
analytics and run AI/ML applications.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section:
• Consider the value, veracity, volume, velocity, and variety of your data as you make
infrastructure design decisions for each business use case.
• Value and veracity are about making sure you have accurate data that leads to insights that
meet business requirements.
• The amount of data (volume), the pace of data (velocity), and the types of data (variety) drive
pipeline design choices.
=== Page 16 ===
Data pipelines
Data Engineering Patterns
This section provides an overview of data pipelines and explains four ingestion patterns.
=== Page 17 ===
Elements of a data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
At the most basic level, any data pipeline infrastructure must be able to bring data in, store it,
and provide the means to work with the data to derive insights. These elements are ingestion,
storage, processing, and analysis of data.
Data is processed iteratively to evaluate and improve upon results. A linear pipeline is a
simplified version of this iterative process.
Looking at the pipeline from the perspective of the data that travels through it, the pipeline
must support the ability to discover details about the data and how it fits (or doesn't fit) your
intended outcomes.
For each use case, start with the end in mind (the business problem) and build the data pipeline
that supports it. The characteristics of your data and the business problem that you are
addressing will determine the elements of the pipeline and iterative process.
Ingestion is the process of extracting data from its source and loading it into a data pipeline to
be stored or analyzed. Data ingestion involves copying data from a source data store to a target
data store.
=== Page 18 ===
Homogeneous ingestion pattern
The primary objective of homogenous ingestion is to move data from a source
data store to a destination data store, while keeping the same data format or
data storage engine type.
When data is ingested in as-is format, the classification is homogeneous.
The slide shows a data migration process in which data is extracted from an on-premises NoSQL
database and loaded onto an Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) MySQL
database. This data is ingested as is without any transformation.
Another use case for homogeneous ingestion is populating a landing area where all of the
original copies of the ingested data are kept. In this case, raw text files need to be stored
without necessarily having to be transformed in any way.
Raw data can be inconsistent, imprecise, and repetitive. The data being ingested might need to
be transformed to extract high-quality data.
Data will almost always be transformed as it moves through the pipeline. This transformation
involves converting and structuring the data in a way that matches the schema of the target
location.
=== Page 19 ===
Heterogeneous ingestion patterns
Extract, transform, and load (ETL)
• Works well with structured data that is destined for a data warehouse
• Stores data that is ready to be analyzed, so this pattern can save time for an analyst
Extract, load, and transform (ELT)
• Works well for unstructured data that is destined for a data lake
• Offers flexibility to create new queries (analysts can access more raw data)
The following are the steps in an extract, transform, and load (ETL) pipeline:
1. Extract structured data.
2. Transform the data into a format that matches the destination.
3. Load the data into structured storage for defined analytics.
The following are the steps in an extract, load, and transform (ELT) pipeline:
1. Extract unstructured or structured data.
2. Load the data into the storage destination in the format that is as close as possible to the
raw form.
3. Transform the data as needed for analytics scenarios.
Throughout this module, you will see multiple use cases with heterogenous ingestion and
processing patterns.
=== Page 20 ===
Batch and streaming processing patterns
Batch ingestion and processing Streamingingestion and processing
• Batch processing usually computes • A data stream is unbounded; it’s a
results based on complete datasets. continuous, incremental sequence of
• Batch pipelines support deep analysis small data packets.
of large datasets. • Streaming pipelines process a series
of events for real-time analytics.
In batch pipelines, every command is run on the entire batch of data. This could be run on
demand, on a schedule, or based on an event.
In streaming pipelines, streaming data is generated continuously by thousands of data sources
simultaneously. As new data arrives, metrics or reports are incrementally updated.
=== Page 21 ===
Comparison of batch and streaming processing patterns
Features Batch Processing Streaming Processing
Data Processing Processing pipelines run infrequently and Processing pipelines run continuously
Cycles typically during off-peak hours
Compute Requires high computing power Requires low computing power and
Requirements reliable, low-latency network connections
Use Case Sales transaction data is analyzed When providing a product
overnight, and reports are sent to branches recommendation, data must be analyzed
in the morning. immediately.
This module will cover batch and streaming ingestion in detail later.
=== Page 22 ===
Key takeaways: • A data pipeline includes layers to ingest,
Data pipelines store, process, and analyze data.
• Data ingestion is the process of extracting
data from its source and loading it into a
data pipeline to be stored or analyzed.
• In homogenous ingestion, data doesn’t need
to be transformed because the source and
destination match. When transformation is
needed, heterogenous ingestion can involve
ETL or ELT patterns.
• If the data needs to be analyzed in near real
time, consider streaming ingestion methods
instead of batch ingestion.
Here are a few key points to summarize this section:
• A data pipeline has layers to ingest, store, process, and analyze data.
• Data ingestion involves extracting and loading the data.
• Homogenous ingestion does not include transformation.
• Heterogenous ingestion does includes transformation, which could be before (ETL) or after
(ELT) loading.
• Streaming ingestion is suitable for real-time data analysis.
=== Page 23 ===
AWS tools to ingest data
Data Engineering Patterns
This section describes the function of four AWS tools for ingesting data.
=== Page 24 ===
Ingestion layer of the data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
Ingestion is the process of extracting data from its source and loading it into a data pipeline to
be stored or analyzed. Data ingestion involves copying data from a source data store to a target
data store.
AWS tools for ingesting data are related to the ingestion layer of the data pipeline.
=== Page 25 ===
Matching ingestion services to data sources
AWS tools for ingesting are purpose-built services that can be organized based on source types.
These services include the following:
• Amazon AppFlow can ingest from software as a service (SaaS) applications such as Salesforce
or Zendesk.
• AWS DataSync can ingest from file shares.
• AWS Data Exchange can provide a streamlined experience to access third-party data.
=== Page 26 ===
Amazon AppFlow
•Provides the ability to transfer data between
SaaS applications and AWS services
•Offers reuse of available service integrations
with available Amazon AppFlow APIs
Amazon AppFlow
•Provides data transformation capabilities
Companies rely on SaaS services for mission-critical workflows, and they face challenges when
collecting data from a growing environment of services into a centralized location.
Amazon AppFlow automates data flows between SaaS and AWS services. This automation gives
businesses the ability to derive insight from that data.
It can take months for a developer to build and manage a connector. With Amazon AppFlow,
you can integrate applications immediately instead of spending months building and managing
connectors to integrate applications.
Amazon AppFlow provides data transformation capabilities, such as filtering, masking,
validating, partitioning, aggregating, and data cataloging.
Sources of data for SaaS applications include Salesforce, SAP, Google Analytics, Facebook Ads,
Zendesk, and ServiceNow. AWS service destinations include Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3) and Amazon Redshift.
=== Page 27 ===
AWS DataSync
•Is a fully managed data migration service
•Simplifies, automates, and accelerates
copying file and object data to and from
AWS storage services
•Is optimized for speed
DataSync
•Includes encryption and integrity validation
•Preserves metadata when moving data
With DataSync, you can move large amounts of data to and from on-premises data centers to
the AWS Cloud. You can also move data between Amazon S3, Amazon Elastic File System
(Amazon EFS), and Amazon FSx.
You can schedule replication tasks to synchronize data between the source and destination on
an hourly, daily, or weekly basis.
The data transfer includes encryption and integrity validation to help ensure that data arrives
securely, intact, and ready to use.
=== Page 28 ===
AWS Data Exchange
•Provides customers with a way to find,
subscribe to, and use third-party data in the
cloud
•Bridges the gap between providers and
subscribers who exchange data by
supporting data delivery through files,
AWS Data tables, and APIs
Exchange
•Simplifies finding, preparing, and using data
in the cloud
AWS Data Exchange simplifies and streamlines data exchange. AWS Data Exchange helps
businesses find the data they’re searching for using a comprehensive catalog. Custom and
private products are available for situations when customers want data that’s not in the public
catalog.
AWS Data Exchange bridges the gap between providers and subscribers who exchange data by
supporting data. This helps customers lower costs, become more agile, and innovate faster. It
supports data delivery through files, tables, and APIs so that customers can start using the data
they want in production as soon as they license it without spending months building data
ingestion pipelines to get it there.
The following are some use cases of how businesses use AWS Data Exchange to get third-party
data in order to enhance their analytics solutions:
• Pharmaceutical companies use life expectancy benchmarks to research new drugs.
• Retailers leverage weather data to anticipate customer needs and optimize inventory
planning.
• Restaurants subscribe to location data to identify places to expand.
=== Page 29 ===
Key takeaways: • To ingest data, consider purpose-built
AWS tools to tools that will reduce undifferentiated
ingest data lifting.
• Amazon AppFlow can ingest from SaaS
applications, such as Salesforce and
Zendesk.
• DataSync can ingest from file shares.
• AWS Data Exchange provides customers
with a way to find, subscribe to, and use
third-party data in the cloud.
=== Page 30 ===
Processing batch data
Data Engineering Patterns
This section describes how AWS Glue assists in batch ingestion and processing. It also describes
how AWS Glue transforms data.
=== Page 31 ===
Processing layer of the data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
After ingestion, data is processed and transformed in the data pipeline. This section discusses
batch processing.
=== Page 32 ===
Batch ingestion and processing
Consider a banking system that receives
financial transactions throughout the day.
The system collects and processes all the
financial transactions at the end of each
day to provide reports to stakeholders
Periodically and third-party systems. Compute-
complete intensive tasks
high-volume, are processed
repetitive data in batches,
jobs Used for daily often in off-
and weekly peak times
reporting
To understand batch ingestion and processing, consider a banking system that receives financial
transactions throughout the day. Instead of processing every transaction as it occurs, the system
collects all the financial transactions at the end of each day to provide reports to stakeholders or
third-party systems.
Concepts of batch processing are apparent in this use case.
Companies use batch processing because it makes repetitive tasks more efficient to run, and it
uses processing power more cost-effectively.
Certain data processing tasks, such as backing up, filtering, and sorting, can be compute
intensive and inefficient to run on individual data records.
Instead, data systems process such tasks in batches, often during off-peak times when
computing resources are more commonly available, such as at the end of the day or overnight.
=== Page 33 ===
When to consider batch processing
• For reporting purposes
• When dealing with large datasets
• When the analytics use case is focused more
on aggregating or transforming data and
less on real-time analysis of data
One use case of batch ingestion and processing is the medical research field. Analysis of large
amounts of data is a common requirement in the field of research. There is no need for real-
time analysis.
AWS customers can apply batch processing in data analytics applications such as computational
chemistry, clinical modeling, molecular dynamics, and genomic sequencing testing and analysis.
=== Page 34 ===
AWS Glue
•Is a data integration service that helps
automate and perform ETL tasks as part of
ingesting data into a pipeline
•Provides the ability to read and write data
from multiple systems and databases
AWS Glue
•Simplifies batch and streaming ingestion
AWS Glue is a data integration service that helps you to automate and perform ETL tasks as part
of ingesting data into your batch or streaming pipeline.
You can consider AWS Glue as a multi-purpose tool with many different capabilities for data
integration. With AWS Glue, AWS customers can read and write data from multiple systems and
databases.
AWS Glue integrates with Amazon S3, Amazon DynamoDB, Amazon Redshift, Amazon RDS, and
Amazon DocumentDB (with MongoDB compatibility).
=== Page 35 ===
AWS Glue components
ETL jobs AWS Glue Data Catalog AWS Glue DataBrew AWS Glue Data Quality
• Data transformation • Data discovery and • No-code service to • Data quality
jobs organization prepare and clean assessment
data
The AWS Glue Data Catalog stores metadata about datasets, including schema information
about data sources and targets of your ETL jobs. Data Catalog does not store any datasets.
For a given dataset, AWS customers can store its table definition and physical location, add
business-relevant attributes, and track how this data has changed over time.
With AWS Glue ETL, you can create or edit jobs for data transformation. AWS Glue ETL has a
visual interface (AWS Glue Studio) from which you can author, run, and monitor AWS Glue ETL
jobs without coding.
AWS Glue Streaming ETL processing capabilities speed up the availability of your stream data for
analysis.
With AWS Glue DataBrew, you can clean and normalize data with a visual interface. DataBrew
collects a set of descriptive metadata to refer to the data.
You can choose from more than 250 prebuilt transformations to automate data preparation
tasks such as filtering anomalies, converting data to standard formats, and correcting invalid
values, all without the need to write any code.
AWS Glue Data Quality assesses a dataset to compute statistics, recommends quality rules,
monitors, and sends alerts when it detects that quality has deteriorated. This helps identify
missing, stale, or bad data before it impacts your business.
=== Page 36 ===
AWS Glue is a data integration service to build modern data
architectures
1. AWS Glue crawlers run on your data stores, derive a schema from them, and populate the
Data Catalog. The crawler creates or updates one or more Data Catalog database tables in
the data catalog. Crawlers can run on many data stores, including Amazon S3, and many
relational databases, including Amazon RDS.
2. The structured or semistructureddata now has a schema. Having this schema makes it
possible to access the data efficiently. When table definitions are added to the Data Catalog,
they are available for ETL and are also readily available for querying in Amazon Athena,
Amazon EMR, and Amazon Redshift Spectrum. An AWS Glue user can have a common view
of data residing in each of these services. When AWS Glue starts to catalog the data, it will
find data type discrepancies and provide notifications.
3. AWS Glue Data Quality automatically computes statistics, recommends quality rules,
monitors data, and alerts you when it detects that the quality does not match the quality
rule set. This feature helps identify missing, stale, or bad data before it impacts the business
decisions.
4. With the scripts that the Data Catalog generates, you can use the visual AWS Glue console
interface to write your scripts and author jobs. AWS Glue Studio provides a graphical
interface to author ETL jobs. The visual interface helps users who don’t have a lot of coding
experience to design jobs and accelerates the process for users who do have coding
experience.
5. With AWS Glue Studio job notebooks, you can interactively author ETL jobs in a notebook
interface based on Jupyter notebooks. AWS Glue Studio job notebooks require minimal
setup and can be automatically converted into AWS Glue data integration jobs.
6. DataBrewis a visual data preparation tool to prepare data with an interactive, point-and-
click visual interface without writing code. With DataBrew, you can visualize, clean, and
normalize large amounts of data.
=== Page 37 ===
Gaming use case for a batch ETL pipeline
A gaming company produces a few gigabytes of user play data on a daily basis. This data might
include details such as average session length, number of in-game purchases, and days since
each player last played.
The company wants to use metrics from user profiles to predict the length of play sessions:
1. The game server that collects the user-generated data from the software pushes the data
into an S3 bucket once every 6 hours.
2. AWS Glue raw schema crawlers run on the player logs and provide AWS Glue ETL with the
data catalog.
3. Every 6 hours, when data gets loaded into the raw log data bucket, an AWS Glue job runs.
The AWS Glue ETL job aggregates log data per player into 1-minute intervals.
4. The transformed data is available from the aggregated S3 bucket for multiple analytics
applications to access.
=== Page 38 ===
AWS Glue as a data transformation service
.csv .parquet Convert .csv to .parquet
• Is the most common • Stores data in a • Speeds up analytics
format to store columnar fashion workloads
tabular data • Is optimized for • Over time, saves
• Isn’t efficient to storage storage space, cost,
store or manipulate • Is suitable for and time
large amounts of parallel processing
data (more than 15
GBs)
AWS Glue is also a data transformation service. You can run an ETL job with AWS Glue ETL to
transform the format of your data.
A common need when dealing with large data files is to convert the format from .csv (comma-
separated values) to Apache Parquet to read and store efficiently.
The Parquet format is built to support efficient compression and encoding schemes. It can
speed up your analytics workloads because it stores data in a columnar fashion. It is suitable for
parallel processing because files can be split into separate chunks.
=== Page 39 ===
Advanced transformation using AWS Glue
Transforming data to detect and remove personally identifiable
information (PII) before analysis
Scan data that has
Detect PII entities Remediate the
sensitive
(such as a passport data
information
number)
Another example of transformation that is supported by AWS Glue and DataBrew is the
detection and removal of sensitive or personally identifiable information (PII).
With AWS Glue PII detection, you scan your data. When entities such as passport number or
Social Security number are detected, you can either mask the data or store the result of the
detect for further inspection.
For more information, see AWS Glue Studio on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 40 ===
Key takeaways: • Batch ingestion and processing make
Processing batch high-volume, repetitive tasks more
data efficient to run.
• AWS Glue provides functionality for
schema identification, data cataloging,
data preparation and cleaning, ETL job
authoring, and data quality assessment.
• Use AWS Glue when an analytics use case
doesn’t require real-time aggregation or
transformation of data.
=== Page 41 ===
Processing real-time data
Data Engineering Patterns
This section describes the streaming pipeline workflow and services related to handling real-
time data.
=== Page 42 ===
Real-time processing layer of the data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
After ingestion, data is processed and transformed in the data pipeline. Data processing in real
time is discussed in this section.
=== Page 43 ===
Streaming data
Streaming data is emitted at high volume in a
continuous, incremental manner with the goal of
low-latency processing.
An online gaming company collects streaming
data about player-game interactions and feeds
the data into its gaming platform. The data gets
analyzed in real time and the company offers
incentives and dynamic experiences to engage
players.
The processing of streaming data is beneficial in most scenarios where new, dynamic data is
generated on a continual basis. It applies to most of the industry segments and big data use
cases. Companies generally begin with less complex applications, such as collecting system logs,
and rudimentary processing, such as rolling min-max computations. Then, these applications
evolve to more sophisticated near real-time processing.
For example, businesses can track changes in public sentiment on their brands and products by
continually analyzing social media streams and can respond in a timely fashion as needed.
=== Page 44 ===
Streaming pipeline workflow and concepts
These are the elements of a streaming pipeline in which data is consumed in near real time and
given to the consumer:
1. The streaming data can come from multiple sources.
2. Producers collect data from sources and deliver it into the data stream service.
3. A stream is a mechanism to deliver messages or data records created by producers to be
read and processed by consumers.
4. Consumers read data from streaming data storage and process that data.
5. The data can go to multiple destinations.
=== Page 45 ===
AWS streaming services
Amazon Data Firehose Amazon Kinesis Amazon Managed
Data Streams Service for Apache Flink
Amazon Kinesis Amazon Managed
Video Streams Streaming for Apache
Kafka (Amazon MSK)
Amazon Kinesis Data Streams collects and ingests large streams of data records in real time.
Amazon Data Firehose delivers near real-time streaming data to supported destinations.
Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flinkis a serverless service to query and analyze
streaming data in real time.
Amazon Kinesis Video Streams securely streams video from connected devices to AWS for
analytics and other processing.
Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK) is a fully managed Apache Kafka
service that can be deployed in a VPC.
=== Page 46 ===
Amazon Data Firehose
• Captures and transforms streaming data in near
real time
• Is used to deliver data to common storage and
analytics destinations
• Delivers data to the storage destination by using
micro batch cycles
Firehose • Can convert the input data format from JSON
toParquetbefore storing the data
• Doesn't require coding to use this service
Some of the destinations are Amazon S3, Amazon Redshift, Amazon OpenSearch Service, and
any custom HTTP endpoint or HTTP endpoints owned by supported third-party service
providers.
For micro batch cycles, a server waits for a short duration of time (milliseconds up to several
seconds) before initiating a batch operation. Micro batching makes sense when a quicker
response time than batch processing is required, but you can wait for a short duration. It’s not
as quick as streaming. This approach balances latency and throughput.
Firehose can convert the format of your input data from JSON to Apache Parquetbefore storing
the data in Amazon S3. Parquet and ORC (Optimized Row Columnar) are columnar data formats
that save space and make faster queries possible compared to row-oriented formats such as
JSON.
=== Page 47 ===
Streaming pipeline workflow using Firehose
An example use case is to collect and ingest weather data from Internet of Things (IoT) sensors
and satellite databases by using Kinesis Data Streams. Then transform the data by using
Firehose and store the data in Amazon S3.
In this use case, the goal was to deliver the weather data to an S3 bucket, and Firehose
simplified this process.
Firehose features near real-time processing capabilities. It loads new data into the storage
destination within 60 seconds after the data is sent to the service.
For faster processing capabilities, you can use Kinesis Data Streams.
=== Page 48 ===
Amazon Kinesis Data Streams
• Ingests stream log and event data
• Provides temporary storage for streaming data (up
to 365 days)
• Is used for real-time delivery, within 60 seconds
• Provides the ability for multiple consumers to
replay stream data at the same time
Kinesis Data
Streams • Uses the Kinesis Producer Library (KPL) and Kinesis
Consumer Library (KCL) to connect with Kinesis
Streams
=== Page 49 ===
Producers and consumers in a streaming pipeline
To benefit from the faster processing capabilities of Kinesis Data Streams, producers and
consumers are needed in the streaming pipeline.
Producers write data into the stream. There are several ways to send data to Kinesis Data
Streams. Having multiple methods provides flexibility in the designs of your solutions.
1. You can write code by using the AWS SDK, which supports multiple popular languages.
2. You can use Amazon Kinesis Agent, a tool for sending data to Kinesis Data Streams.
3. The Kinesis Producer Library (KPL) enhances the data ingestion capabilities covered in the
AWS Kinesis Data Streams API. KPL simplifies the retry, batching, and optimization of writes
to a Kinesis data stream.
To read and process data from Kinesis Data Streams, you need to create a consumer application:
4. You can use the Kinesis Client Library (KCL). KCL helps to consume and process data from a
Kinesis data stream by taking care of complex tasks associated with distributed processing.
For example, the KCL can automatically load balance record processing across many
instances, give the user the ability to checkpoint records that are already processed, and
handle instance failures. With the KCL, you can focus on writing your record-processing logic.
5. You can also use AWS Kinesis SDKs to read from a Kinesis data stream to provide a finer level
of control. This is suitable for experienced developers to use.
=== Page 50 ===
Streaming pipeline workflow using Kinesis Data Streams
Kinesis Data Streams is a service that ingests and provides temporary storage for streaming
data. It can capture stream log and event data, run real-time analytics, and build event-driven
applications.
An example use case is to collect clickstream data from social media, stream it, hold it in
temporary storage, and then put it into permanent storage.
• Sources: The data is from a social media mobile application.
• Producers: A producer application collects data from the mobile applications and delivers it
into the data stream service.
• Streams: Kinesis Data Streams is a service that ingests and stores streaming data.
• Consumers: A consumer application reads data from the streaming data storage and
processes that data for downstream usage.
• Destination: The data goes to persistent storage in this use case.
=== Page 51 ===
Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink
•Provides the ability to build end-to-end
processing applications for streaming data
•Processes the data using methods such as
aggregation or anomaly detection
•Helps you gain business insights in real time
Amazon Managed
Service for •Delivers transformed data to a stream or
Apache Flink
other destination
Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flinkcontinually reads and analyzes data from a
connected streaming source in real time. It is used to process data and gets insights in seconds
or minutes rather than waiting days or even weeks. With Amazon Managed Service for Apache
Flink, you can quickly build end-to-end stream processing applications for log analytics,
clickstream analytics, IoT, ad tech, gaming, and more.
Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flinktakes care of everything required to run streaming
applications and scales automatically to match the volume and throughput of incoming data.
The most common use cases are streaming ETL, continuous metric generation, responsive real-
time analytics, and interactive querying of data streams.
=== Page 52 ===
Processing data with Amazon Managed Service for
Apache Flink
Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flinkis a serverless service that you can use to transform
and analyze streaming data and respond to anomalies in real time.
You can process data streams in real time with SQL or Apache Flink without having to learn new
programming languages or processing frameworks.
In addition to Kinesis Data Streams and Firehose, other ingestion services can collect and
process streaming data in real time based on specific use cases.
=== Page 53 ===
Amazon Kinesis Video Streams
• Securely streams video from connected devices to
AWS for analytics, ML, playback, and other
processing
• Automatically provisions and elastically scales all
the infrastructure that is needed to ingest
streaming video data from millions of devices
Kinesis Video • Durably stores, encrypts, and indexes video data in
Streams
your streams and provides access to your data
through API operations
This fully managed AWS service can capture massive amounts of live video data from millions of
sources, including smartphones, security cameras, webcams, and cameras embedded in cars,
drones, and other sources.
=== Page 54 ===
Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (Amazon MSK)
•Is a fully managed Apache Kafka service
•Reduces operational overhead
•Can be deployed with existing Apache Kafka
tools
Amazon MSK
•Works with existing AWS integrations
If the current streaming solution is an on-premises Kafka cluster migrated to the cloud, Amazon
MSK helps you reduce the operational overhead of running Apache Kafka and Kafka Connect
clusters. You can use applications and tools built for Apache Kafka without any code changes by
using Amazon MSK. You can deploy production-ready applications by using native AWS
integrations, and you can connect other applications by using the Kafka APIs with Amazon MSK.
If you want to use open source solutions and reduce licensing costs and are already familiar
with Apache Kafka, Amazon MSK would be ideal. Serverless options are also available.
Amazon MSK requires more set up and engineering than Kinesis streaming services. For
example, you would have to do the work to fit Amazon MSK into your custom processes.
=== Page 55 ===
Streaming clickstream data in a café scenario
The café owners want to evaluate clickstream data to determine when their users are browsing
and clicking on the café menu. To do this, they do not need subsecond delivery time for the
ingestion and analysis.
The use case of the café scenario is what determined the selection of Firehose. There are
connectors for the source (Amazon API Gateway) and the destination (Amazon S3) for Firehose.
Operationally, Firehose is the simplest service to use:
1. A static website hosted on Amazon S3 returns the café menu page.
2. The website browser sends the clickstream data to API Gateway.
3. Firehose ingests the clickstream data.
4. The clickstream data goes to an S3 bucket. From there, analysis and visualization tools can
access this data.
=== Page 56 ===
Medical devices using Kinesis Data Streams and Amazon
Managed Service for Apache Flink
In this use case, medical devices are being used to monitor patients. Sensor data from these
devices is used to determine the devices’ functional accuracy. If there is too much or not
enough data, the anomaly will be identified and the medical professional will be notified in near
real time. Timing is critical in this use case, which is why Kinesis Data Streams is used. Any
fluctuation should be reported in milliseconds:
1. Kinesis Data Streams ingests IoT sensor data.
2. The data goes to Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink, which does the anomaly
detection.
3. If an anomaly is detected, an AWS Lambda function is initiated.
4. The Lambda function sends a mobile notification to the medical professional to evaluate the
medical device.
=== Page 57 ===
Comparison of streaming ingestion services
Firehose Kinesis Data Streams Amazon MSK
• Is the simplest option to • Is an option when you can’t • Is an open source option to
feed data to Firehose use a Firehose approved reduce licensing costs; ideal
storage destinations destination or need more if you’re already familiar
• Integrates well with AWS control on how your data is with Kafka
services to be consumed • Requires you to manage
• Retains undelivered data for • Requires code customization more of the underlying
a maximum of 24 hours; • Retains data up to 365 days infrastructure
doesn’t store or replay for replay purposes • Retains data longer, and it’s
delivered data configurable
The business use case, the amount of engineering effort required, and the length of the
retaining period are some of the factors to consider as you select a streaming ingestion service.
Firehose is the least complex, and Amazon MSK is the most complex of the three services listed:
• Firehose is the simplest option to feed data into Firehose storage destinations, such as
Amazon S3. If you can’t use a Firehose approved destination or need more control over how
your data is to be consumed, Kinesis Data Streams would be a suitable option. If you want to
use open source solutions and reduce licensing costs and are already familiar with Apache
Kafka, Amazon MSK would be ideal. Serverless options are also available.
• Firehose integrates well with AWS services, and you can take a plug-and-play approach.
Kinesis Data Streams is a bit more complex because it requires code customization (for
example, KCL or KPL). Amazon MSK requires more setup and engineering. For example, you
would have to do the work to fit Amazon MSK into your custom processes.
• In terms of data retention, Firehose does not store delivered data. Undelivered data is
retained for a maximum of 24 hours. By default, Kinesis Data Streams retains data for 24
hours in a Kinesis data stream. This period can be extended up to 365 days. Amazon MSK
retains data for a longer duration, and it is configurable.
=== Page 58 ===
Key takeaways: • The Amazon Kinesis family provides fully
managed data ingestion services:
Processing real-
• Firehose delivers near real-time streaming data to
time data certain destinations. It provides short-lived
retention of delivered data but lacks replay support.
• Kinesis Data Streams collects and ingests large
streams of data records in near real time. It offers
the best low-latency data streaming properties but
requires some configuration.
• Kinesis Video Streams securely streams video from
connected devices to AWS for analytics and other
processing.
• Amazon Managed Service for Apache Flink
analyzes streaming data.
• Amazon MSK is a fully managed Apache
Kafka service that you can deploy in a virtual
private cloud (VPC).
For ingestion services based on the use case requirements by stream, select the Amazon Kinesis
family and characteristics of the data.
=== Page 59 ===
Storage in the data pipeline
Data Engineering Patterns
This section discusses storage options commonly used in a data analytics pipeline.
=== Page 60 ===
Storage layer in the data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
Throughout the data pipeline, data is being stored securely. This section discusses concepts and
services related to storage in the pipeline.
=== Page 61 ===
Storage in a modern data architecture
A data lake consists
of data storage,
a data catalog,
and security access.
Image description: The image consists of a data lake at the center of the diagram surrounded by
elements for analytics processing. The elements are relational databases, nonrelational
databases, big data processing, machine learning, log analytics, and data warehouse. The
arrows depict data movement. End description.
Organizations want to capture all of their data to derive value from it as quickly as possible. A
modern data architecture isn't restricted by separate data silos. This makes it possible for all the
organization’s data to be available to users for analysis by using their preferred data analytics
tool of choice. A modern data architecture will give you the best of both data lakes and
purpose-built data stores. The goal of this architecture is to control data access to the data lake
and ensure minimum and efficient data movement when analysis takes place.
Data lake storage and security is at the core of a modern data architecture. A data lake is a
centralized repository that you can use to store all your structured and unstructured data at any
scale. This architecture provides a low-cost storage solution for any amount of data by using
open standards-based data formats. You can store your data as-is without having to first
structure the data. The data lake allows import and export of data or data query results to
relational databases, nonrelational databases, data warehouse databases, machine learning
models, and big data parallel processing services as required. These services can also share
data.
Note that nonrelational databases can also be called NoSQL databases, and big data processing
refers to large datasets processed in parallel.
The following are data movement types:
=== Page 62 ===
• Inside-out data movement happens when a service such as big data processing or
machine learning needs a portion of the data in the data lake. The data is copied, moved,
or filtered by a query from the data lake to the service. For example, clickstream data from
web applications is collected directly in a data lake, and a portion of that data can be
moved to a log analytics service for trend analysis.
• Outside-in data movement happens when a data analytics solution requires the data to be
in the data lake for processing. This type of analytics solution usually means that the data
should form part of a bigger dataset. The data is copied, moved, or filtered by a query to
the data lake from a database source.
• If a service other than the data lake has a direct integration with another service, it is
possible to move, copy, or query data between these services directly.
=== Page 63 ===
AWS modern data architecture
Data lake
Data management
storage and security
access
Data catalog and Data access
transformation engine
Image description: The image consists of a data lake architecture with Amazon S3, AWS Lake
Formation including AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) permissions, AWS Glue, and
Athena as components. End description.
In the AWS Cloud, a data lake is implemented with a collection of AWS services working
together to provide data lake functionality.
The management component of the data lake is Lake Formation. It gives you the ability to
configure and manage your data lake from a central console. Here you can discover data
sources, store data by using Amazon S3, and create AWS Glue transformation jobs with the aid
of the Data Catalog. The Data Catalog contains the data schemas used to read data from the
data lake. IAM security access permissions are also configured in Lake Formation to allow user
access and analytics service access.
Athena is a SQL query engine and provides a way for analytics and visualization applications to
run SQL queries against data in the data lake.
=== Page 64 ===
AWS data lake solution
Image description: The image consists of a data lake architecture with Amazon S3, Lake
Formation, AWS Glue, and Athena as components. The elements in the note description
surround the data lake. End description.
The arrows depict data movement. Here are some examples of other AWS services that play a
role in an AWS modern data architecture:
• Amazon Aurora and Amazon RDS store relational, normalized data.
• DynamoDB is a NoSQL database that stores key-value data.
• Amazon EMR transforms or aggregates big datasets in parallel.
• Amazon SageMaker trains models to recognize patterns on datasets.
• OpenSearch Service stores data indexed for fast retrieval.
• Amazon Redshift as a data warehouse database stores historical data. A SQL query is split up
to run in parallel to provide results of datasets spanning long time periods such as 20 years.
=== Page 65 ===
Activity: Choosing Banking applications produce the
Data Storage for a
following:
Bank Application
• Customer data
• Individual customer financial transactions
• Log data
• User activity logs for fraud analysis
• Application error logs
This is an instructor-led activity that discusses the various options for choosing data storage for
a banking application.
=== Page 66 ===
Use case: Storage options for bank application data
Individual financial
transactions for customers
Total amount of daily financial Amazon Redshift Amazon S3
transactions for customers
User activity logs
for fraud analysis Amazon
DynamoDB
Error logs for bank applications
Amazon OpenSearch Amazon Aurora
Service
Let's say you work on a data engineering team for an enterprise-sized bank that has been
around for about 20 years. Your bank has a banking website for customers where they can apply
for accounts and complete online transactions to manage their accounts. The bank customers
also have debit and credit cards to buy items or withdraw money in physical locations.
The bank has multiple applications that produce different types of data. Bank customers have
bank profiles with bank accounts. They produce a financial transaction every time they deposit
or withdraw money from their bank account. In addition, bank customers can buy merchandise
online or in physical locations.
The bank applications also produce logs for user activity and application errors. The bank wants
to migrate their applications to the AWS Cloud.
Looking at a data lake architecture, which AWS storage services would be appropriate for the
different types of data? Your choices are Amazon Redshift, Amazon S3, OpenSearch Service,
DynamoDB, and Aurora.
The following are the data types:
• Individual customer financial transactions
• Daily customer financial transaction total amount
• User activity logs for fraud analysis
• Application error logs
=== Page 67 ===
Bank application data storage options solution
1. To store individual customer financial transactions, you need a service that is optimized for
small record writes, has 24/7 availability, and can be used concurrently by thousands to
millions of customers. This is called online transaction processing (OLTP), and transactions
are typically stored as a row in a table. Relational or NoSQL databases are ideal for OLTP
transaction storage. In this use case, Aurora and DynamoDB are suitable for individual
customer financial transactions.
2. To store the total amount of daily financial transactions for customers, you need to calculate
the daily total per customer and store it in a data warehouse. Reports over a span of years
can be created from the daily totals to predict spending patterns. This is called online
analytical processing (OLAP), and data is typically stored in columnar tables for fast SQL
query retrieval. In this use case, Amazon Redshift is appropriate for daily customer financial
transaction total amount.
3. To store user activity logs for fraud analysis, it could be a good idea to put the logs in an
application made to analyze logs. As an alternative, the logs can be analyzed in the data lake
itself by using SQL query tools that connect to the data in the data lake. In this use case, user
activity logs for fraud analysis can either be stored in the data lake by using Amazon S3 or
OpenSearch Service for an indexed solution.
4. To store application error logs, the simplest architecture would be to use data lake storage
by using Amazon S3.
=== Page 68 ===
Comparison of a data warehouse and a data lake
Features Data Warehouse Data Lake
Data Sources Business applications and databases Internet of Things (IoT) devices, websites,
mobile apps, social media, and business
applications
Schema Structured schema on write Unstructured schema on read
Price Higher-cost storage Low-cost storage
Data Quality Curated, processed, or aggregated data Raw (unprocessed data of transactional
as the central version of truth events) or transformed (processed data)
Analytics Use Case Batch reporting, business intelligence, Logs, data discovery, and profiling
and visualizations
A data warehouse is a database optimized to analyze relational data coming from transactional
systems and line of business applications. The data structure, and schema are defined in
advance to optimize for fast SQL queries, where the results are typically used for operational
reporting and analysis. Data is cleaned, enriched, and transformed so it can act as the “single
source of truth” that users can trust.
A data lake is different, because it stores relational data from line of business applications, and
non-relational data from mobile apps, IoT devices, and social media. The structure of the data
or schema is not defined when data is captured. This means you can store all of your data
without careful design or the need to know what questions you might need answers for in the
future. Different types of analytics on your data like SQL queries, big data analytics, full text
search, real-time analytics, and machine learning can be used to uncover insights.
For data warehouses, when data is written, the schema must be known; this is referred to as
the schema-on-write approach. For data lakes, writing data does not need a schema, but
reading does need a schema.
=== Page 69 ===
Cost and querying time determines data storage
Amazon S3 Amazon Redshift Spectrum Amazon Redshift
• Lower cost data lake • Reduces data • Higher cost
• Less efficient for warehouse cost • Efficient querying
querying • Provides querying on across large datasets
S3 buckets without
moving data into the
warehouse
Storage cost
For data analytics applications that consume structured and unstructured data, the storage
service that you select depends on the structure of the data, how the data will be consumed,
and the cost and availability of the data.
• Analytics applications require large-scale, affordable, highly available, and secure data access.
These requirements are met with a modern data lake architecture built on Amazon S3.
Compared to other AWS storage services, Amazon S3 tends to be the most cost efficient
choice for AWS customers. Analytics applications that want to read data from Amazon S3
need to take into account the length of time it will take to actually access the data. Amazon
S3 provides a way for unstructured data to be stored in data partitions. If daily logs are stored
in a separate folder, then data queries that use a date will be efficient because only the
applicable folders are accessed. The query scope is limited to a subset of a company’s
available data.
• On the other hand, a service like Amazon Redshift is generally more expensive because it is a
cluster of instances that makes up a data warehouse. Although a query will have access to all
the organization’s data, query times will be efficient over large datasets spanning long time
periods.
• AWS customers can get the best of both worlds by using Redshift Spectrum to run queries
against S3 buckets without moving the data to Amazon Redshift. This option will reduce cost
because no data movement is necessary.
Consider the budget and time constraints when accessing the data. The goal is to maximize
value and minimize cost.
=== Page 70 ===
Data retention time determines data storage
General purpose Infrequent access Archive
S3 Standard S3 Standard- S3 Glacier Instant Retrieval
Infrequent Access
Unknown or
Amazon S3 changing access
S3 Glacier Flexible Retrieval
S3 Intelligent- S3 One Zone-
Tiering Infrequent Access S3 Glacier Deep Archive
Relational databases are sensitive to the amount of data that they can contain before
performance degrades. It is a common practice to archive data out of a relational database into
a more cost-efficient storage option. Storage classes are purpose-built for varying access
patterns at corresponding costs.
By using Amazon S3 storage classes, you can choose how to store data based on access needs
and cost considerations. Analytics and ML workloads require large quantities of data, and you
want to ensure that you store that data in the most cost-effective manner as possible. For
known data usage patterns, use standard or infrequent access as required. For unknown usage
patterns, use intelligent tiering to provide a way for AWS to classify data as standard or
infrequent access.
For more information, see Amazon S3 storage classes on the content resources page of your
online course.
=== Page 71 ===
Data origin and shape determine data storage
Data
origin
Business applications (OLTP) Analytics applications (OLAP)
Structured and Real-time Unstructured and Processed and
Data
shape semistructured streaming of raw data aggregated data
data data
Data RDMS or NoSQL Stream Data lake Data warehouse
storage
After the data is stored at the
OLTP level, the data is processed
or moved to the OLAP level.
Business applications produce OLTP and streaming data records. Data is stored in a relational
database management system (RDMS) for structured data and a NoSQL database for
semistructureddata. Real-time streaming of business application data can be stored inside a
streaming service or moved to object storage for unstructured data.
After the data is stored at the business application level, the data is processed or moved to a
data analytics location. Unstructured and raw data is suited for object storage, and processed
and aggregated data should reside in a data warehouse. You can see that the shape (structured
or unstructured) plays an important role in where the data is stored.
The following are some AWS storage solutions:
• Amazon Aurora for an RDMS
• Amazon DynamoDB for a NoSQL database
• Amazon Kinesis, Amazon S3, and Amazon MSK for a streaming storage system
• Amazon S3 for a data lake
• Amazon Redshift for a data warehouse
=== Page 72 ===
Key takeaways: • A modern data architecture is built on a data
Storage in the lake as a central component with analytics
and storage services as its peripheral
data pipeline
components.
• A data lake architecture consists of data
storage, a data catalog, data access security,
and data transformation tools.
• A data warehouse has a schema-on-write
approach, and a data lake has a schema-on-
read approach.
• Design data storage by considering data
origin, data shape, cost, query scope, and
data retention periods.
=== Page 73 ===
Parallel processing in the data
pipeline
Data Engineering Patterns
This section discusses big data parallel processing in the data pipeline.
=== Page 74 ===
Big data workflow for parallel processing
Split large
Process parts Results are
dataset into
in parallel. aggregated.
smaller parts.
A big data workflow can be described in three steps:
• Parallel processing is a computing technique that breaks up the processing of large datasets
into smaller parts.
• Each part then processes a portion of the dataset separately at the same time.
• The result of each part is then aggregated into the final output.
This technique was developed because single servers did not have enough memory and storage
available to handle the processing of a large dataset. Instead, a cluster of servers containing
hundreds or thousands of servers processes the large dataset with parallel processing. One
example of processing a big dataset is to count all the words in all the books in a digital library
that contains 1 million books. The library books will be processed in 10 batches of 100,000
books each with a result list of the number of occurrences of each word. The aggregation
function will collate the 10 batches into one result list with the total number of occurrences of
each word in the digital library.
A benefit of parallel processing is solving large problems in a shorter period of time. By running
the components of a problem concurrently, the total duration is greatly reduced. For example,
to process 1,000 log files for 1 minute each, it takes over 16 hours to complete if sequentially
processed. When processed in parallel, the same task takes only 1 minute.
=== Page 75 ===
Amazon EMR
•Amazon EMR handles cluster infrastructure
management.
•Amazon EMR includes many Apache Hadoop
applications, such as Hadoop MapReduce and
Apache Spark.
•Amazon EMR can be deployed on Amazon
Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances,
Amazon EMR Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon
EKS), or AWS Outposts.
•Amazon EMR Serverless supports a serverless
cluster.
Amazon EMR takes care of infrastructure provisioning, cluster setup, configuration, and tuning.
An EMR cluster can be deployed on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances in a
VPC subnet in a single Availability Zone (AZ). For Multi-AZ deployments, you can pass the
workload job to an existing Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)cluster. Amazon
EMR is available to run on premises on AWS Outposts. If cluster management control is
unfeasible, use Amazon EMR Serverless to run data transformation jobs in a serverless
environment.
=== Page 76 ===
Choosing a parallel processing solution
Requirement Amazon EMR EMR Serverless AWS Glue
Manage and Control Clusters Yes No No
Lift and Shift Legacy Apache Hadoop or Yes No No
Spark Applications to AWS
Develop New Cloud Applications for Batch No Yes Yes
Data Processing
Has Pay-Per-Job Price Model No Yes Yes
Run Only Apache Spark Jobs No No Yes
Choose between Amazon EMR, EMR Serverless, and AWS Glue to implement a batch ETL
solution on AWS. If an organization prefers to have full control of its clusters or wants to move
legacy Apache Hadoop applications to AWS without making code changes, Amazon EMR would
be a good solution.
To develop AWS native cloud applications for batch data processing, or if a pay-per-job model is
preferred, choose between EMR Serverless and AWS Glue. If a development team has some
Hadoop MapReduce or Apache Spark experience, EMR Serverless would be a good choice.
If a team is new to data analytics or prefers to run only Apache Spark jobs, then AWS Glue
would be a good choice.
=== Page 77 ===
Curating data with Amazon EMR
It is a best practice to split up a data lake into different zones depending on the quality of the
data. Here is an example of a three-step workflow to provide cleaned and curated data for an
organization:
1. Data is transferred from multiple on-premises data sources to the AWS data lake into the
designated Amazon S3 data drop zone. Lake Formation is used as security access to the data
lake.
2. The Amazon EMR data cleaning job copies the data from the data drop zone. It runs the
processing steps needed to clean the data and copies the result set to the data analytics
zone. Analytics applications can now consume the data.
3. The Amazon EMR data curation job copies the data from the data analytics zone. It runs the
processing steps needed to curate the data and copies the result set to the curated data
zone. Users who need curated data can now access the curated data for visualization and
analysis.
=== Page 78 ===
Key takeaways: • Big data parallel processing is a
Parallel processing computing technique that breaks up the
in the data pipeline processing of large datasets into smaller
parts.
• EMR clusters can use Hadoop MapReduce
or Apache Spark frameworks to process
data in parallel.
• Choose Amazon EMR to manage clusters.
• Choose EMR Serverless or AWS Glue for
serverless solutions.
=== Page 79 ===
Analysis and visualization
Data Engineering Patterns
This section discusses the choice of analysis and visualization tools.
=== Page 80 ===
Analysis and visualization layer of the data pipeline
Ingest Process Analyze
Get your raw data Transform the Discover details
Data into the cloud and data so that it about the data to Data-driven
sources into your pipeline. becomes viable for build visualizations insights
analysis. or predictions.
Store
Securely store raw and processed data in a cost-effective way.
After ingestion and processing, the data is ready for consumption. This section discusses data
analysis and visualization.
=== Page 81 ===
Choosing consumption tools for the data pipeline
I want to use SQL
queries to
I want to design an interactively search
interactive data through customer
dashboard with application activity I want to use a real-
charts and graphs to files in a data lake time application
share with to solve a one-off monitoring
stakeholders. customer problem. dashboard.
Business analyst Data scientist DevOps engineer
After data has been stored and curated in various data stores, there are many tools to choose
from to analyze and visualize the data. Depending on the use case, different AWS analysis
services are available to fulfill the specific analysis requirement.
Consider the following use cases, and think about which AWS service can be used to implement
it:
1. A business analyst wants to design an interactive data dashboard with charts and graphs to
share with business stakeholders.
2. A data engineer wants to use SQL queries to interactively search through files related to
customer application activity in a data lake to solve a one-time customer problem.
3. A DevOps engineer wants to build a real-time application-monitoring dashboard.
Depending on the use case and the data consumption task, implement the principle of least
privilege by giving only enough access for systems to do the job. Identify the minimum privileges
that each user or system requires, and only allow the permissions that they need. For example,
if a business analyst requests to read an Amazon Redshift table from an analytics workload, only
give the read permission for the table using Amazon Redshift user privilege controls.
=== Page 82 ===
Design dashboards with QuickSight
Amazon QuickSight
Amazon QuickSight is a business intelligence (BI) tool that organizations can use to scale their
business analytics capabilities to hundreds of thousands of users. It delivers fast and responsive
visualizations by using a robust in-memory engine (SPICE).
In QuickSight, adata dashboardis a collection of charts, graphs, and insights. It's like a digital
newspaper that's all about the data that you're interested in with the ability to interact with the
dashboard.
You can share dashboards with stakeholders by publishing the dashboard or sharing a link to the
published dashboard. Alternatively, a dashboard can be imbedded in a customer web or mobile
application. A dashboard can be sent as a report on a schedule through email with the
QuickSight Enterprise edition.
You can connect QuickSight to AWS data sources, including Amazon RDS, Aurora, Amazon
Redshift, Athena, and Amazon S3. You can also upload Excel spreadsheets or flat files (CSV, TSV,
CLF, and ELF); connect to on-premises databases such as SQL Server, MySQL, and PostgreSQL;
and import data from SaaS applications such as Salesforce.
When designing a dashboard, a business analyst can select data, and the QuickSight feature
AutoGraph will automatically choose the right type of graph or chart suitable for the data. You
can even search data by using natural language with the QuickSight Q search bar and return the
resulting data as a visualization.
=== Page 83 ===
One-time SQL queries with Athena SQL
Image description: Athena console SQL editor connecting to the Athena service to run queries.
Athena uses Data Catalog for data metadata and connects to Amazon S3 as a data source for
queries.End description.
Athena SQL is a data query engine and data schema metadata store with the ability to query
unstructured and structured data stored in other services by using SQL queries. Athena is built
on Trino and Apache Presto and works with various standard data formats, including CSV, JSON,
Apache ORC, Apache Parquet, and Apache Avro. You can analyze data directly in Amazon S3 by
using standardSQL.
Athena integrates with Data Catalog for unstructured data reads, which offers a persistent
metadata store for your data in Amazon S3. This gives you the ability to create table schemas
and query data in Athena based on a central metadata store available throughout your AWS
account.
Athena provides data source connectors to connect with data sources. You can connect to AWS
data sources such as Amazon RDS databases, DynamoDB, Amazon MSK, OpenSearch Service,
and Amazon Redshift. It is also possible to access on-premises data sources such as SAP HANA
and Db2. You can use Athena to access other cloud data lakes such as Azure Data Lake Storage.
This means that you can run federated queries or construct views from multiple data sources.
Athena is serverless, so there is no infrastructure to set up or manage. It uses a pay-per-query
model, which is more suited to one-time SQL queries. You can connect BI analysis and
visualization tools like QuickSight to Athena by using Java Database Connectivity (JDBC) and
Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) drivers.
=== Page 84 ===
Athena for Apache Spark is another feature of Athena. It gives you the ability to use Apache
Spark to process big data parallel workloads. This is very similar to AWS Glue for Apache
Spark and Amazon EMR ETL jobs.
=== Page 85 ===
Visualizing clickstream data for the café scenario
The café owners require a data analyst to build a dashboard report on clickstream activity of
website users. The report should be shared with a URL link:
1. The data analyst uses QuickSight to configure security permissions for Athena and the café
clickstream bucket as data sources. The data analyst builds the dashboard.
2. Using Data Catalog, Athena saves all the queries generated by QuickSight for the dashboard
in the QuickSight query result bucket.
3. Upon completion, the data analyst publishes the dashboard and sends the URL link to the
café owners.
4. The café owners use the URL link to view the dashboard.
=== Page 86 ===
Real-time application dashboard with OpenSearch Dashboards
OpenSearch
Dashboards
Image description: An example of the OpenSearch Service dashboard including a donut chart
with the number of events, area chart for event timelines, and number of success and failed
events. End description.
OpenSearch Service is a managed serverless service to implement Apache OpenSearch use
cases such as interactive log analytics, real-time application monitoring, and website searches. It
is a data storage option that indexes uploaded data in a domain to provide a way for the search
and analysis of data. OpenSearch Service provides an installation of OpenSearch dashboards
with every OpenSearch Service domain.
You can proactively monitor your application data in OpenSearch Service with alerting and
anomaly detection. Set up alerts to receive notifications when your data exceeds certain
thresholds. Anomaly detection uses ML to automatically detect any outliers in your streaming
data. You can pair anomaly detection with alerting to ensure that you're notified as soon as an
anomaly is detected.
Multi-AZ with Standby is a deployment option for OpenSearch Service that provides high-
availability and consistent performance for business-critical workloads. With Multi-AZ with
Standby, OpenSearch Service managed clusters are resilient to infrastructure failures such as
node drops or a single Availability Zone failure. Multi-AZ with Standby provides the added
benefit of simplifying cluster configuration and management by enforcing best practices and
reducing complexity.
=== Page 87 ===
Key takeaways: • QuickSight is a business intelligence tool
Analysis and to visualize data by using publishable
visualization dashboards.
• Athena SQL is a data query engine and
data schema metadata store with the
ability to query data stored in other
services by using SQL queries.
• With Athena for Apache Spark, you can
use Apache Spark to process parallel
workloads of big data.
• OpenSearch Service indexes uploaded
data to facilitate search and analysis of
data.
=== Page 88 ===
Activity: Data • You are a cloud architect and are assigned
Pipeline to an organization that provides weather
Architecture data for data analysts.
• Provide an architectural solution for the
data pipeline and explain it by using an
architecture diagram that you create for a
given scenario.
This is an instructor-led activity with a student worksheet to be completed.
=== Page 89 ===
Applying the AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to data
pipelines
Data Engineering Patterns
=== Page 90 ===
Review process for the Data Analytics Lens
The AWS Well-Architected Data Analytics Lens is a collection of customer-proven best practices
for designing well-architected analytics workloads. The Data Analytics Lens contains insights
that AWS has gathered from real-world case studies. This provides a way for IT architects and
developers to evaluate an analytics workload and implement best practices provided by the lens
without needing to become subject matter experts.
• Define the workload: A workload identifies a set of componentsthat together deliver
business value. The workload is usually the level of detail that business and technology
leaders communicate about. Examples of workloads are marketing websites, e-commerce
websites, the back-ends for a mobile app, analytic platforms, etc.
• Evaluate the workload against the pillar design principles: To evaluate an analytics
workload, prioritize the pillars in order of importance, and identify the most important design
principles to implement for each pillar.
• Implement best practices: Proceed to implement those best practices. The process continues
with regular evaluations to add as many best practices as possible.
The tools and techniques you've learned about in the other sections of this module align to the
AWS Well-Architected Framework pillars. In practice, you need to continually evaluate whether
your solution is the best fit for your analytics workload.
For more information, see Data Analytics Lens on the content resources page of your online
course.
=== Page 91 ===
Well-Architected Framework best practices for
data analytics
The AWS Well-Architected Framework supplies best practices for workload design, operation,
and maintenance. It helps you understand the pros and cons of the decisions that you make
while building workloads on AWS. It is a set of foundational questions that help you to
understand if a specific architecture aligns well with cloud best practices.
The next few slides highlight some of the best practices for evaluating whether your solution is
the best fit for your analytics workload by using the security, performance efficiency, cost
optimization, and reliability pillars. Some of these may seem familiar because they were covered
earlier in the module.
=== Page 92 ===
Best practice approach: Control access to the workload infrastructure
Best practice
Implement polices of least privilege
for source and downstream systems.
The security pillar encompasses the protection of data, systems, and assets to take advantage of
cloud technologies to improve your security. Analytics environments change based on the
evolving requirements of data processing and data distribution. Ensuring that the environment
is accessible with the least permissions necessary is essential to delivering a secure platform.
The principle of least privilege works by giving only enough access for systems to do their job.
The system’s actions on the data should determine the permissions, and granting permissions to
other systems should not be permitted. This module mentions various roles that access data for
analysis and visualization. Identify the minimum privileges that each user requires, and grant
each user only the permissions that they need. For example, if a business analyst requests to
read an Amazon Redshift table from an analytics workload, give only the read permission for the
table by using Amazon Redshift user privilege controls.
For more information, see Security Pillar -AWS Well-Architected Framework on the content
resources page of your online course.
=== Page 93 ===
Best practice approach: Choose the best-performing compute solution
Best practice
Identify analytics solutions that best
suit your technical challenges.
The performance efficiency pillar focuses on the efficient use of resources to meet
requirements as demand changes and technologies evolve. AWS has multiple analytics
processing services that are built for specific purposes. This module discusses some of these
services, including Amazon Redshift for data warehousing, Kinesis for streaming data, and
QuickSight for data visualization. Applications and services are designed to overcome specific
challenges. It’s essential that your organization identify the right tool for the right job to meet
your business and technical requirements. For example, in this module, a use case of visualizing
clickstream data from café users was shown by using QuickSight and Athena.
For more information, see Performance Efficiency Pillar -AWS Well-Architected Framework on
the content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 94 ===
Best practice approach: Manage cost over time
Best practices
Remove unused data and
infrastructure.
Reduce overprovisioning
infrastructure.
The cost optimization pillar includes the continual process of refinement and improvement of a
system over its entire lifecycle to optimize cost. To ensure that you always have the most cost-
efficient workload, periodically review your workload to discover opportunities to implement
new services, features, and components. It is common for analytics workloads to have an ever-
growing number of users and exponential growth of data volume. Implement a standardized
process across your organization to identify and remove unused resources, such as unused data
and infrastructure.
• Remove unused data and infrastructure: Delete data that is out of its retention period or not
needed anymore. Data that is past its retention period should be deleted to reduce
unnecessary storage costs. Identify data through the metadata catalog that is outside its
retention period. If data is stored in Amazon S3, use Amazon S3 lifecycle configurations to set
the data to expire automatically. Recall from the data storage section of this module how the
data retention period impacts storage choices.
• Reduce infrastructure overprovisioning: Workload resource utilization can change over time,
especially as data grows or after process optimization has occurred. Data that is infrequently
used can be moved from a data warehouse into a data lake. From there, the data can be
queried in place or joined with data in the warehouse. Use services such as Amazon Redshift
Spectrum to query and join data in the Amazon S3 data lake, or use Athena to query data at
rest in Amazon S3. Recall from the data warehouse and data lake comparison in this module
how balancing cost and querying time impacts data storage decisions.
For more information, see Cost Optimization Pillar -AWS Well-Architected Framework on the
content resources page of your online course.
=== Page 95 ===
Best practice approach: Design resilience for analytics workloads
Best practice
Understand the business
requirements of analytics and ETL
jobs.
The reliability pillar encompasses the ability of a workload to perform its intended function
correctly and consistently when it’s expected to. One way to design resilience for analytics
workloads is to understand the business requirements and how these requirements relate to
patterns for moving data. The section of this module on heterogeneous ingestion patterns of
the data pipelines addresses this topic.
There are three common design patterns when moving data from source systems to a target
data store:
• The first pattern is ETL, which transforms the data before it is loaded into the target data
source.
• The second pattern is ELT, which loads the data into the central data repository (such as a
data lake or data warehouse).
• The third pattern is ETLT, which is a hybrid of the previous two patterns. This pattern
performs a transform to meetentryquality criteria, loads data into the data storage, and
later transforms the data when needed.
For more information, see Reliability Pillar -AWS Well-Architected Framework on the content
resources page of your online course.
=== Page 96 ===
Key takeaways: • Implementing the Data Analytics Lens is a
Applying the AWS continual process with regular evaluations
Well-Architected to add as many best practices as possible
Framework to data to an analytics workload.
pipelines
• Prioritize the pillars in order of
importance, and identify the most
important design principles to implement.
=== Page 97 ===
Module wrap-up
Data Engineering Patterns
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 98 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Use the Well-Architected Framework to generalize the type of architecture
that is required to suit common use cases for data ingestion (batch and
stream).
• Select a data ingestion pattern that is appropriate to the characteristics of the
data (velocity, volume, and variety).
• Select the appropriate AWS services to ingest and store data for a given use
case.
• Select the appropriate AWS services to optimize data processing and
transformation requirements for a given use case.
• Identify when to use different types of AWS data analytics and visualization
services based on a given use case.
=== Page 99 ===
Considerations for the café
Discuss how you, as a cloud architect, might
advise the café based on the key concerns for
cloud architecting presented at the start of
this module.
=== Page 100 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 101 ===
Sample exam question
A data engineer needs to analyze and visualize a lot of streaming data from user activity logs in real time. Which
single service would provide this capability?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Analyze and visualize
• Streaming data logs
• Real time
• Single service
The question notes that the data engineer needs a solution for analyzing and visualizing
streaming log data and that the analysis needs to occur in real time. Also, there is a requirement
to use a single AWS service.
=== Page 102 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
A data engineer needs to analyze and visualize a lot of streaming data from user activity logs in real time.
Which single service would provide this capability?
Choice Response
A Amazon OpenSearch Service
B Amazon Athena
C Amazon QuickSight
D Amazon Redshift
Use the key words that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible
responses to determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 103 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is A.
Choice Response
A Amazon OpenSearch Service
Choice B (Amazon Athena) is incorrect because although Athena provides interactive analysis by
using SQL, it does not have visualization capabilities.
Choice C (Amazon QuickSight) is incorrect because QuickSight can provide the visualization
capabilities, but an additional service would be needed to ingest data.
Choice D (Amazon Redshift) is incorrect because Amazon Redshift is a data warehouse service
and is not used for real-time data analysis and visualization.
Choice A (Amazon OpenSearch Service) is the best choice. OpenSearch Service is the single
solution that meets the requirements. OpenSearch Service can analyze large volumes of
streaming data and server logs, and OpenSearch Dashboards provides visualizations.
=== Page 104 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
The Content Resources page of your course includes links to additional resources that are
related to this module.
=== Page 105 ===
Appendix
Data Engineering Patterns
=== Page 106 ===
Appendix: Data • Value of data
characteristics
• Veracity of data
• Volume of data
• Velocity of data
• Variety of data
=== Page 107 ===
Appendix: Value of data
Scope Ask Consider
• Value is about how • What insights can • Keep the end user in
an organization can you gain from the mind as you design
use processed data data? the infrastructure
to gain insight to a • How should you and make decisions.
business problem or process the data to
solve it. get the answers that
you need?
Value is about ensuring that you are getting the most out of the data that you have collected.
Value is also about ensuring that there is business value in the outputs from all that collecting,
storing, and processing.
Working backward and knowing what insights need to be derived from the data show how the
value of data drives infrastructure decisions. Consider the café scenario in which clickstream
data of menus will provide insight into customer behavior and purchasing outcomes. The value
of this data lies in its potential to inform business decisions and improve the customer
experience. To leverage this data effectively, the company needs infrastructure that supports
real-time analytics.
=== Page 108 ===
Appendix: Veracity of data
Scope Ask Consider
• Veracity is about • How accurate, • Value rests on
understanding the precise, and trusted veracity because
full lifecycle of your is the data? without good data,
data and knowing you could make bad
how to protect and business decisions.
strengthen the
integrity of your
data.
Consider where your data is coming from and how its integrity can be protected as it goes
through the data pipeline.
The accuracy and trustworthiness of the data are important because they are the foundation of
the analysis that you do to make decisions.
Data inconsistencies and inaccuracies need to be addressed and accounted for to ensure
consistent and reliable data capture. The value of the insights depend on accurate data.
Consider a healthcare organization that aims to improve patient care and treatment outcomes
by implementing a data-driven approach. The organization collects data from electronic health
records, medical devices, patient surveys, and clinical trials. However, they encounter challenges
regarding the veracity of some of the collected data, such as data inconsistencies and
inaccuracies while capturing data from multiple systems.
=== Page 109 ===
Appendix: Volume of data
Scope Ask Consider
• Volume is about • How big is the • Understand the
how much data you dataset? duration of keeping
need to process. • How much new data the data and the
is generated? access frequency to
weigh the cost and
• How long do you
benefits of storage.
need to keep the
data?
• How often do you
need to access the
data?
The volume of data impacts the infrastructure of getting the data into the pipeline, processing
the data, and keeping it.
Depending on how often you want to access and process the data, you can make decisions
about storing it.
Consider a social media platform that initially had a data infrastructure that was designed to
handle a moderate amount of user-generated content. However, due to its growing user base
and increased activity, the platform is now facing a significant increase in the volume of data
that exceeds the capacity of its existing infrastructure. This leads to delays, data loss, and overall
poor system performance. In this use case, the social media company needs to make a change
in infrastructure to effectively handle the increased data volume.
=== Page 110 ===
Appendix: Velocity of data
Scope Ask Consider
• Velocity is about • How frequently is • Volume and velocity
how quickly data data generated? together drive the
enters and moves • How quickly does expected
through your the data need to be throughput and
pipeline. acted upon? scaling
requirements of
• Can your pipeline
your pipeline.
handle sudden
bursts of data?
The amount of data and the pace of data drive design choices.
For use cases with equally high volume, the velocity of the arrival of the data and the speed
with which the data must be processed will impact the pipeline infrastructure you design.
The combination of volume and velocity has a direct impact on how your pipeline needs to be
architected. Can your pipeline handle sudden bursts of data (for example, gaming data during
peak times)?
Consider a smart city project that has the goal of optimizing traffic flow. Sensors gather real-
time traffic data from across the city. The high velocity of generated data makes it possible to
identify traffic hotspots and respond quickly to accidents. The infrastructure needs to be able to
support data processing at this scale. In this use case, the speed of data and the need to process
the data to respond to traffic hotspots and accidents impact infrastructure decisions.
=== Page 111 ===
Appendix: Variety of data
Scope Ask Consider
• Variety is about the • What is the format • Combining datasets
different types of of the data? can enrich analysis
data and the • What is the data but can also
number of diverse type? Is it complicate
data sources you structured, processing.
deal with. semistructured, or
unstructured?
• How many different
sources does the
data come from?
Different data types will lend themselves to certain types of processing and analysis. This will
impact how the data gets into the pipeline and the process to prepare it for analysis.
There are three general types of data: structured, semistructured, and unstructured. Structured
data is stored in a tabular format, such as records in a traditional relational database.
Semistructured data has a self-describing structure and recognizable elements, but it doesn't
have the rigid schema constraints of structured data. For example, a .json or .xml file is
semistructured. Unstructured data doesn't have a predefined structure. This makes it very
flexible but more difficult to query.
Consider a retail company that initially had a data infrastructure designed to handle structured
transactional data from its physical stores. As the company expanded its online presence, it
attempted to incorporate unstructured data sources, such as customer reviews, social media
comments, and images. The existing infrastructure struggles to ingest and process the diverse
data types effectively. Only collecting data is not enough to gain actionable insights. The data
must be properly ingested, processed, and analyzed. In this use case, the existing pipeline
should change to account for the unstructured data that the company is now collecting.
=== Page 112 ===
Appendix: Data • Transforming data during ingestion
pipelines
=== Page 113 ===
Appendix: Transforming data during ingestion
• Raw data can be inconsistent, imprecise, and repetitive. Data will
almost always be transformed as it moves through the pipeline.
• You might need to prepare the data before it's viable for analysis:
• Clean or normalize the data.
• Modify the format to support a specific analysis tool.
• Augment the dataset by filling in gaps or enrich it with additional information.
• Add metadata to categorize and catalog data.
The data being ingested might need to be transformed to extract high-quality data. This involves
converting and structuring it in a way that matches the schema of the target location.
=== Page 114 ===
Appendix: AWS • AWS DataSync: Transfer between on
tools to ingest premises and AWS
data
=== Page 115 ===
AWS DataSync: Transfer between on premises and AWS
In this use case, researchers have data on an on-premises server and need to access the data in
the AWS Cloud for archiving and analytics. They need to synchronize their data from the on-
premises center to AWS on a daily basis:
1. DataSync uses an agent to transfer data from your on-premises storage. When deployed, the
agent acts as an extension of the DataSync service and is managed seamlessly by AWS.
2. A one-time setup is needed for the agent to read data from your source storage. After setup
completes, you can create as many transfer tasks as you need, connecting between your on-
premises storage and storage in AWS.
3. Configure a source destination for your data transfer. The data can be transferred to all
storage classes of Amazon S3, all file systems of Amazon FSx, and Amazon EFS.
4. After transferring the data into any of the storage services, you can use DataSync again to
transfer data between Amazon S3, Amazon FSx, and Amazon EFS.
=== Page 116 ===
Appendix: • EMR cluster architecture on Amazon EC2
Processing real-
• Amazon EMR workflow
time data
=== Page 117 ===
EMR cluster architecture on Amazon EC2
Image description: An EMR cluster is deployed in a private subnet in a VPC in a single AZ in an
AWS Region. The cluster primary node instance belongs to the primary node security group. The
cluster core and task node instances belong to the worker node security group.End description.
An EMR cluster is a collection of EC2 instances. Each instance in the cluster is called a node.
Within the cluster, each node has a role referred to as thenode type.
The primary node instance manages the cluster by running software components to coordinate
the distribution of data and tasks among other nodes for processing. The primary node tracks
the status of tasks and monitors the health of the cluster. Every cluster has a primary node, and
it's possible to create a single-node cluster with only the primary node.
EMR cluster worker nodes have two different types. A core node is an instance with software
components that runs tasks and stores data in the HDFS on a cluster. Multinode clusters have at
least one core node. A task node is a node with software components that only runs tasks and
does not store data in HDFS. Task nodes are optional.
It is important to note that the primary node has a separate security group with different access
rules than the worker node security group.
The cluster lifecycle can be long running or transient. Transient means that after processing the
data, the cluster is shut down. This is usually done to save cost. When the cluster is shut down,
the cluster storage is also terminated. It is important to save processed data in external storage
when using transient clusters.
=== Page 118 ===
Amazon EMR workflow
For Amazon EMR to process data, the data must be copied from data stores to the EMR cluster
data storage. Some AWS services such as DynamoDB, Amazon Redshift, and Amazon S3 provide
direct integrations with Amazon EMR.
The Amazon EMR workflow consists of the following three numbered steps: Amazon EMR
storage, data processing, and export data.
The Amazon EMR workflow includes the following three main steps:
1. Data import: For Amazon EMR to process data, the data must be copied to the EMR cluster
data storage. Two types of storage commonly used are HDFS developed by Apache and the
EMR File System (EMRFS) developed by AWS. A data catalog is used with HDFS and EMRFS to
facilitate unstructured data reads. AWS recommends using the Data Catalog because it is
stored externally to the EMR cluster. EMRFS is an implementation of HDFS that all EMR
clusters use for reading and writing regular files from Amazon EMR directly to Amazon S3.
EMRFS provides the convenience of storing persistent data in Amazon S3 for use with
Hadoop while also providing features such as data encryption.
2. Data processing: To submit a processing job (or workload), a processing step is added to the
EMR cluster. The processing step includes the framework specification (Hadoop MapReduce
or Apache Spark) and the code script written in Python, Scala, or PySpark. A step can be
added during EMR cluster creation or after creation on a long-running cluster. Steps can also
be added by workflow applications such as AWS Step Functions to construct an automated
data-processing pipeline. The Amazon EMR engine runs the step and reports the job
duration, and success or failure metrics.
3. Data export: After processing is complete, the resulting dataset is persisted in either the
long-running EMR cluster or exported to an AWS destination. Common destinations are S3
=== Page 119 ===
buckets used for data lake storage and Amazon Redshift as a data warehouse.