# Clean Text Extracted from: 16.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 16:51:03
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
AWS Academy Cloud Architecting
Module 16 Student Guide
Version 3.0.3
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 16: Planning for Disaster 4
=== Page 4 ===
Planning for Disaster
AWS Academy Cloud
Architecting
Welcome to the Planning for Disaster module. This module introduces considerations and strategies for disaster
recovery (DR) planning.
=== Page 5 ===
Introduction
Planning for Disaster
This introduction section describes the content of this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module This module prepares you to do the
objectives following:
• Identify strategies for disaster planning,
including recovery point objective (RPO) and
recovery time objective (RTO) based on
business requirements.
• Identify disaster planning for Amazon Web
Services (AWS) service categories.
• Describe common patterns for backup and
disaster recovery (DR) and how to implement
them.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework
principles when designing a disaster recovery
plan.
=== Page 7 ===
Module overview
Presentation sections Knowledge checks
• Disaster planning strategies • 10-question knowledge check
• AWS disaster recovery planning • Sample exam question
• Disaster recovery patterns
• Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to disaster
planning
The objectives of this module are presented across multiple sections.
The module wraps up with a 10-question knowledge check delivered in the online course and a sample exam
question to discuss in class. The lab in this module is described on the next slide.
=== Page 8 ===
Hands-on labs in this module
Guided lab
• Configuring Hybrid Storage and Migrating Data with AWS Storage
Gateway S3 File Gateway
This module includes the guided lab listed. Additional information about this lab is included in the student guide
where the lab takes place, and detailed instructions are provided in the lab environment.
=== Page 9 ===
As a cloud architect • I need to design architectures that
planning for mitigate the risk of disaster, and also
disasters: support timely recovery from disasters
when they occur, so that I can help to
minimize the impact of disasters on the
business.
• I need to consider the organization's
business needs so I can apply disaster
recovery patterns that balance cost, data
loss, and recovery time.
This slide asks you to take the perspective of a cloud architect as you think about how to approach planning
disasters. As you progress through this module, remember that the cloud architect should work backward from
the business need to design the best architecture for a specific use case. Consider the café scenario presented
in the course as an example business need. Think about how you would address this need for the fictional café
business.
The starting point when designing for outages and disaster recovery is to understand the customer's
perspective. Which aspects of their business do they consider critical, nominally important, or nonessential.
Based on this context, an architect can apply the concepts explained in this module. These concepts apply
regardless of whether the environment is in the process of migration, fully cloud-based, or in a hybrid
configuration.
=== Page 10 ===
Disaster planning strategies
Planning for Disaster
This section provides an overview of disaster planning strategies. It also discuses how to evaluate your system
to establish a recovery point objective (RPO) and recovery time objective (RTO) to produce a business continuity
plan.
=== Page 11 ===
Failures can occur at any scale
Small-scale events Large-scale events Global events
A server stops Multiple resources across Failure is widespread and
responding. an Availability Zone are impacts a large number
unavailable. of users and systems.
Vice President (VP) and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) at Amazon, Werner Vogels, has famously stated on more
than one occasion that, "Everything fails, all the time." His pronouncement has continued to influence cloud
computing architectural design for many years because it speaks to a truism.
Failure should not be thought of as an unlikely aberration. Instead, it should be assumed that failures, both large
and small, can—and will—occur. How do you prepare for these events?
A failure can be categorized as one of the following three types:
• A small-scale event –For example, a single server stops responding or goes offline.
• A large-scale event –Here, multiple resources are affected, perhaps even across Availability Zones within an
AWS Region.
• A global scale event –Here, the failure is widespread, and it affects a large number of users and systems.
Consider the size of the failure along with the impact it has. For example, if the single server that goes offline is
the main or only server hosting customer records, it cannot be categorized as a small-scale event. Likewise,
consider an array of servers that serve as read-only replicas for data accessed once a day. If this array ceases to
function, it does not meet the essential criteria for a large-scale event.
To minimize the impact of a disaster, organizations must invest time and resources to plan and prepare, train
employees, and document and update processes. The amount of investment for disaster planning for a
particular system can vary dramatically, depending on the cost of a potential outage.
=== Page 12 ===
Avoiding and planning for disaster
Fault tolerance Backup Disaster recovery
Minimize how often your Make sure you have a Recover your data and
applications and data backup plan for handling get your applications
become unavailable. data in case of a disaster. back online after a
disaster.
Disasters are events that can lead to failures on a small, large, or global scale. Architects should design
architectures to avoid disasters and, at the same time, implement plans to recover from them when they occur.
Architects do this in three primary ways as follows:
• Fault tolerance provides redundancy when it can withstand failure of an individual or multiple components
(for example, hard disks, servers, or network connectivity). Production systems typically have defined uptime
requirements.
• Backup is critical to protecting data and ensuring business continuity. However, it can be a challenge to
implement. The pace at which data is generated is growing exponentially. Meanwhile, the density and
durability of local disks are not experiencing the same growth rate. Even so, it is essential to keep your critical
data backed up in case of a disaster.
• Disaster recovery is about preparing for and recovering from a disaster. A disaster is any event that has a
negative impact on a company’s business continuity or finances. Such events include hardware or software
failure, a network outage, a power outage, or physical damage to a building (like fire or flooding). The cause
can be human error or some other significant event. Disaster recovery is a set of policies and procedures
used for the recovery of vital technology infrastructure and systems after any disaster.
=== Page 13 ===
Factors that influence disaster planning strategies
Time dependency Data loss Geographic location Cost
How quickly does this What is the amount of Does this impact Does the cost
need to be remedied data you are OK with multiple AWS represent the correct
to avoid business losing? Regions? level considering
impact? What is the type of Do different Regions business impact and
data you are OK with require different risk?
losing? measurements of how
quickly the must
recover and how
much data loss is OK?
Designing your disaster recovery strategies is dependent on the business's evaluation of which level of failure
the business can tolerate. Four key factors the business needs to consider are as follows:
• How quickly the business needs to recover
• How much data loss the business can tolerate
• Whether there are different needs for different locations
• How to balance the cost of being prepared with the risk factors posed to the business
The customer works with the cloud architect to define what the data is and how much data loss (if any) is
acceptable in a disaster recovery scenario. For example, would there be catastrophic consequences if customer
records from 10 years ago were not recoverable? If the records relate to customers who account for only a
small amount of present-day revenue, losing them would probably be tolerable. However, if the records relate
to customers who represent a significant amount of ongoing revenue, losing them would not be acceptable.
Even though it takes time to develop and implement a full disaster recovery plan, this should not stop you from
taking the first steps. Start with basics and work your way up. For example, as a first step, create backups of
data storage, databases, and critical servers. Then, work to set measures for each of the four factors discussed
here and incrementally improve the business’s ability to limit the impact of disasters.
=== Page 14 ===
Determining RPO
RPO is the maximum acceptable amount of data loss, measured in time.
Image description: Timeline depicting that a disaster occurs 8 hours after the last backup. The data loss in this
example is anything generated between the last backup and the time of the disaster 8 hours later. This
represents an RPO of 8 hours. End description.
The Recovery point objective (RPO) is the maximum acceptable amount of data loss after an unplanned data-
loss incident. It is expressed as an amount of time.
=== Page 15 ===
Example: Determining RPO
Determine that a loss of a Use existing patterns to Calculate that an RPO of 8
maximum of 800 records is determine that no more than hours (8*100 records) is
100 records are created an
acceptable for your acceptable.
hour.
application.
Based on this information, if a disaster occurred at 10 p.m., the system should be able to
recover all data that was in the system before 2 p.m.
Here is a more detailed overview of calculating the RPO. Suppose you determine that the data your application
generates is important but not critical, so losing 800 records would be acceptable. You further calculate that
even during peak times, no more than 100 records are created in an hour.
In this scenario, you decide that an RPO of 8 hours is sufficient to meet your needs. If you implement a disaster
recovery plan that meets this RPO, you will do data backups at least every 8 hours. Then, if a disaster occurs at
10 p.m., the system should be able to recover all data that was in the system before 2 p.m.
=== Page 16 ===
Determining RTO
RTO is the maximum acceptable amount of time after a disaster
strikes that a business process can remain out of commission.
Image description: Timeline depicting that a disaster occurs 8 hours or fewer from the last backup. Timeline
also shows it will take 1 hour after a disruption to recover the data from the last backup. This sets the RTO in
this situation at 1 hour. End description.
Another important measure of a disaster recovery plan is to define the recovery time objective (RTO). RTO is the
time that it takes aftera disruption to restore your applications and recover your data. Suppose the disaster
occurs at 10 p.m., and the RTO is 1 hour. In this scenario, the DR process should restore the business process to
the acceptable service level by 11 p.m.
A company typically decides on acceptable RPO and RTO, and it bases its decision on the financial impact to the
business when systems are unavailable. The company determines financial impact by considering many factors.
These factors include loss of business and damage to its reputation because of downtime and the lack of
systems availability.
IT organizations then plan solutions to provide cost-effective system recovery. The solutions are based on the
RPO in the timeline and the service level that the RTO establishes.
=== Page 17 ===
Example: Determining RTO
Determine that a ticketing The business calculates that Calculate that an RTO of 2
service for a local music venue after 2 hours of an outage, it hours is acceptable.
will begin to lose revenue
can be restored within 2 hours.
from lost sales.
Based on this information, if a disaster occurred at 9 p.m., the system should be returned to
service before 11 p.m.
Here is a more detailed look at calculating the RTO. In this example, a disaster occurs at 9 p.m. It was
determined that it will take 2 hours after a disruption to recover the data from the last backup. In this scenario,
the DR process should restore the business process to the acceptable service level by 11 p.m.
=== Page 18 ===
Preparing a BCP
A business continuity plan (BCP) is a system of prevention and
recovery from potential threats to a company.
A BCP consists of the following:
• Business impact analysis
• Risk assessment
• Disaster recovery plan
• Evaluated and determined RPO and RTO
Your disaster recovery plan should be a subset of your organization’s business continuity plan (BCP). Maintaining
aggressive disaster recovery targets is pointless if a workload’s objectives cannot be achieved due to the
disaster impact on business elements external to your workload. For example, an earthquake might prevent you
from transporting products purchased on your ecommerce application. Even if effective DR keeps your
workload functioning, your BCP needs to accommodate transportation needs. Your DR strategy should be based
on business requirements, priorities, and context.
Organizations of all sizes, large and small, often have a BCP. A typical part of the BCP is to provide for IT service
continuity, including IT disaster recovery planning.
One of the most important measures of a disaster recovery plan is to define your RPO. To calculate RPO, first
determine how much data loss is acceptable according to your BCP. Then, figure out how quickly that data loss
might occur as a time measurement.
It is also important to note that the BCP is a living document. The BCP should be constantly evaluated and
adjusted based on the needs of the business and the resources required to meet deadlines.
=== Page 19 ===
Key takeaways: • Failures can occur at any time and on a small,
large, or global scale.
Disaster planning
strategies • A disaster recovery plan will help limit
business and customer impact when a
disaster occurs.
• RPO is the maximum acceptable amount of
data loss after an unplanned data-loss
incident.
• RTO is the amount of time an application,
system, and process can be down without
causing significant damage to the business.
• A BCP is a system of prevention and recovery
from potential threats to a company that
includes RPO and RTO.
=== Page 20 ===
AWS disaster recovery planning
Planning for Disaster
This section provides an overview of disaster recovery planning for Amazon Web Services (AWS) service
categories.
=== Page 21 ===
DR plans span more than one Region
Image description: A layout of the five service categories within two Regions. The image depicts how the
disaster recovery aspects are shared across two Regions to ensure that data is available regardless of localized
disasters in one Region.
End description.
To properly scope your disaster recovery planning, you must think about your use of AWS holistically. Most
organizations use a combination of services that can be broadly categorized as encompassing the following five
service categories:
• Storage, such as Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
• Compute, such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Database, such as Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)
• Networking & Content Delivery, such as Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC)
• Deployment orchestration services within Management & Governance, such as AWS CloudFormation
If a disaster occurs, your RPO and RTO will guide your backup and restore plans and procedures across each of
these service areas. They will also probably affect your production deployment architecture.
It is important to remember that although it’s unlikely for a Region to be unavailable, it is in the realm of
possibility. If some large-scale event affects a Region—for instance, a meteor strike—would your data still be
available? Would your applications still be accessible? AWS provides multiple Regions around the world. Thus,
you can choose the most appropriate location for your disaster recovery site in addition to the site where your
system is fully deployed.
=== Page 22 ===
Storage and backup building blocks
Image description: AWS Cloud architecture services for data storage and the corporate data center services that
transfer data to the cloud. End description.
The diagram depicts the following data storage in the cloud services:
• Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)
• Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)
• Amazon S3
• Amazon Simple Storage Service Glacier (Amazon S3 Glacier)
To start your disaster planning in detail, review the data storage layer (postponing the discussion of the
database layer for the moment). Your AWS Cloud storage can consist of a combination of block storage, file
system storage, and object storage. Meanwhile, your organization might also use AWS services that connect the
on-premises data center to the AWS Cloud. In the next few slides, you will learn about high-level best practices
for each of these three areas.
One service that you might be less familiar with is AWS DataSync. DataSync provides movement of large
amounts of data online between on-premises storage and Amazon S3, Amazon EFS, or Amazon FSx. It supports
scripted copy jobs and scheduled data transfers from on-premises Network File System (NFS) and Server
Message Block (SMB) storage. It can also optionally use AWS Direct Connect links.
=== Page 23 ===
Configuring Cross-Region Replication
Image description: A diagram of AWS Cloud services. The image depicts services gathering data from an existing
replicated source S3 bucket in Region A, and then sending it to a destination S3 bucket in Region B. End
description.
For many organizations, the bulk of their data that is stored on AWS is in Amazon S3, which provides object
storage.
Recall that S3 buckets exist in a specific Region. You choose the Region when you create the bucket. Amazon S3
provides 11 nines (99.999999999 percent) of durability for the following storage classes:
• S3 Standard
• S3 Standard-Infrequent Access (S3 Standard-IA)
• S3 One Zone-Infrequent Access (S3 One Zone-IA)
• Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3 Glacier)
S3 Standard, S3 Standard-IA, and Amazon S3 Glacier are all designed to sustain data if an entire Amazon S3
Availability Zone loss occurs. They provide this stability by automatically storing your objects across a minimum
of three Availability Zones, each separated miles apart across a single Region.
For critical applications and data scenarios where you want a higher level of data security, it is a best practice to
configure S3 Cross-Region Replication (CRR). To do this, you add a replication configuration to your source
bucket. The minimum configuration must indicate the destination bucket where you want Amazon S3 to
replicate all objects or a subset of all objects. It must also include an AWS Identity and Access Management
(IAM) role that grants Amazon S3 permissions to copy the objects to the destination bucket.
Copied objects retain their metadata. The destination bucket can belong to another storage class. For example,
the contents of an S3 Standard bucket might be replicated to an Amazon S3 Glacier bucket if it is not needed
immediately.You can assign different ownership to the objects in the destination bucket. You can also use S3
Replication Time Control (S3 RTC) to replicate your data across different Regions in a predictable time frame. S3
RTC replicates 4 nines (99.99 percent) of new objects stored in Amazon S3 within 15 minutes, backed by a
=== Page 24 ===
service-level agreement (SLA).
=== Page 25 ===
EBS volume snapshots
Image description: A diagram of AWS Cloud services. The image depicts services gathering data from a source
EBS volume in Region A that contains incremental backups on an Amazon S3 snapshot. Amazon S3 sends a copy
of the snapshot to the destination S3 bucket in Region B. End description.
Regarding block storage, you can back up the data that is on EBS volumes to Amazon S3 by taking point-in-time
snapshots. Snapshots areincrementalbackups, which means they save only the blocks on the device that have
changed since your most recent snapshot. This architecture minimizes the time required to create the snapshot,
and it saves on storage costs by not duplicating data.
Each snapshot contains all the information needed to restore your data (from the moment when the snapshot
was taken) to a new EBS volume. When you create an EBS volume that is based on a snapshot, the new volume
begins as an exact replica of the original volume. This original volume is used to create the snapshot. The
replicated volume loads data in the background so you can use it immediately. If you access data that has not
been loaded yet, the volume immediately downloads the requested data from Amazon S3. Then, it continues to
load the rest of the volume's data in the background.
Amazon EBS volumes provide off-instance storage that persists independently from the life of an instance and is
replicated across multiple servers in an Availability Zone. Volumes prevent the loss of data from the failure of
any single component. After you create a snapshot, it finishes copying to Amazon S3 (when the snapshot status
iscompleted). Then, you can copy it from one Region to another or within the same Region.
You can use Amazon Data Lifecycle Manager to automatethe creation, retention, and deletion of snapshots
that back up your EBS volumes. Automating snapshot management helps you do the following:
• Protect valuable data by enforcing a regular backup schedule.
• Retain backups as required by auditors or internal compliance.
• Reduce storage costs by deleting outdated backups
You cannot create snapshots of EC2 instance store volumes. However, if you must back up data from an instance
store, you can create a new EBS volume and format it. Then, mount the new volume to the EC2 instance guest
=== Page 26 ===
operating system (OS) and copy the data on your instance store volume to the EBS volume. Recall
thatinstance storevolumes provide temporary block-level storage that works well for information
that changes frequently, such as buffers, caches, and scratch data. You might find that you must back
up data from an instance store. If so, you might want to rethink why you are storing that data on an
instance store volume in the first place.
=== Page 27 ===
File system replication
Image description: A diagram of AWS Cloud services. The image depicts services gathering data from a source
file system in Region A through DataSync. The services then sends it to a destination Amazon FSx or EFS file
system in Region B. The diagram also depicts an option to use AWS Direct Connect to pull data from an
additional source file system.End description.
Businesses need access to their files. Replicating your file storage is a best practice that ensures that you
continue to have access to your files.
DataSync makes data move faster between two Amazon EFS or Amazon FSx for Windows File Server file systems
or between on-premises storage and AWS file storage. You can use DataSync to transfer datasets over AWS
Direct Connect or the internet. Use the service for one-time data migrations or ongoing workflows for data
protection and recovery.
FSx for Windows File Server takes daily automatic backups of your file systems, and you can use it to take more
backups at any point. Amazon FSx stores the backups in Amazon S3. By default, daily backups are created
automatically during your file system's 30-minute backup window.The daily backup retention period that is
specified for your file system determines the number of days that your daily automatic backups are kept. (This
number is 7 days by default.)
Like most Amazon S3 storage classes replicate data across Availability Zones, so do Amazon EFS and FSx for
Windows File Server file systems. Your disaster recovery requirements might specify that you need a multi-
Region recovery solution. If so, it is a best practice to replicate your Amazon EFS and FSx for Windows File
Server file systems to a second Region. You can use DataSync to get this replication. To make file transfer
between two EFS file systems more convenient by using DataSync, you can use theAWS DataSync In-Cloud
QuickStart and Scheduler.
You can learn about how to use AWS Backup to manage EBS volume backups and to automate backups of EFS
file systems. For more information, see “Scheduling Automated Backups Using Amazon EFS and AWS Backup” in
the AWS Storage Blog.
=== Page 28 ===
Recovering compute infrastructure
Obtain and boot new server instances or containers in minutes.
You can arrange for automatic recovery of an EC2 instance when a system status check of the underlying
hardware fails. The instance is rebooted (on new hardware, if necessary)—but it retains its instance ID, IP
addresses, EBS volume attachments, and other configuration details. For a complete recovery, make sure that
the instance is configured to automatically start up any services or applications as part of its initialization
process.
Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) are preconfigured with operating systems, and some preconfigured AMIs might
also include application stacks. You can also configure your own custom AMIs. In the context of disaster
recovery, AWS recommends that you configure and identify your own AMIs so they launch as part of your
recovery procedure. Such AMIs should be preconfigured with your operating system of choice in addition to the
appropriate pieces of the application stack. A golden AMI refers to an AMI that is preconfigured with all
necessary applications and services to perform its designated function.
You could use a golden AMI with the most updated code, but that requires a new AMI on every code push and
complicates DevOps. As system configurations don’t change as often as the codebase, it is often easier to create
the AMI and use a user data script to pull the latest code and configuration from the code repository when you
deploy.
=== Page 29 ===
Harnessing EventBridge for regional failover
AWS Cloud
Image description: The diagram shows how global endpoints reroute events from the primary event bus to the
secondary event bus. This rerouting occurs when CloudWatch alarms invoke Route 53 health check failover. End
description.
This event flow can be interrupted if there is a service disruption. In this scenario, event producers in the
primary Region cannot PutEvents to their event bus, and event replication to the secondary Region is impacted.
To put more resiliency around multi-Region architectures, you can now use global endpoints. Global endpoints
solve these issues by introducing two core service capabilities as follows:
• A global endpoint is a managed Route 53 DNS endpoint. It routes events to the event buses in either Region,
depending on the health of the service in the primary Region.
• There is an Amazon EventBridgemetric called IngestionToInvocationStartLatency. This metric measures the
time to invoke the first target after an event is ingested.exposesthe time to process events from the point at
which they are ingested by EventBridgeto the point the first invocation of a target in your rules is made. This
is a service-level metric measured across all your rules and provides an indication of the health of the
EventBridge service. Any extended periods of high latency over 30 seconds might indicate a service
disruption.
=== Page 30 ===
Designing for resiliency and recovery
Route 53 ELB Amazon VPN AWS Direct Connect
• Provides DNS- • Provides traffic Provides secure access Provides the
based load distribution to your on-premises dedicated network
balancing • Makes disaster network resources connection for fast,
• Provides basic recovery from your Amazon consistent data
failover between implementation VPC through a VPN transfer between on-
endpoints or S3 straightforward connection premises and AWS
websites
When you work to recover from a disaster, you will probably need to modify network settings to fail your
system over to another site. AWS offers several services and features you can use to manage and modify
network settings, a few of which are highlighted next.
Route 53 provides load balancing and network routing capabilities that you can use to distribute network traffic.
It also provides the ability to fail over between multiple endpoints and even to a static website that is hosted in
Amazon S3.
The Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) service automatically distributes incoming application traffic across multiple
EC2 instances. You can use it to achieve fault tolerance in your applications by providing the load balancing
capacity that is needed in response to incoming application traffic. You can pre-allocate a load balancer so that
its DNS name is already known, which can make implementation of your DR plan more straightforward.
You can use Amazon VPN to extend an existing on-premises network topology to the cloud. This extension can
be especially appropriate when you recover enterprise applications that might be hosted on an internal
network.
Finally, AWS Direct Connect makes the set up of a dedicated network connection from an on-premises data
center to AWS more efficient. Using AWS Direct Connect can reduce network costs, increase bandwidth
throughput, and provide a more consistent network experience than internet-based connections.
=== Page 31 ===
Supporting database recovery
Amazon RDS DynamoDB
• Save a snapshot in a separate Region. • Back up entire tables.
• Use read replicas and Multi-AZ • Use point-in-time-recovery to restore
deployments. tables.
• Retain automated backups. • Create backups.
• Use global tables to build a multi-
Region, multi-active database.
AWS provides many database services. Some key features of Amazon RDS and Amazon DynamoDB that are
relevant to disaster recovery scenarios are explained next.
Consider using Amazon RDS in the DR preparation phase to store a copy of your critical data in a database that
is already running. Then, use Amazon RDS in the DR recovery phase to run your production database.
If you implement a multi-Region DR plan, Amazon RDS gives you the ability to store snapshot data that was
captured from one Region to another Region. You can share a manual snapshot with up to 20 other AWS
accounts.
By combining read replicas with Multi-AZ deployments, you can build a resilient disaster recovery strategy and
make your database engine upgrade process more straightforward. By using Amazon RDS read replicas, you can
create one or more read-only copies of your database instance. You can create these copies in the same Region
or in a different Region. Updates to the source database are then asynchronously copied to your read replicas.
Read replicas can be promoted to become a stand-alone database instance when needed.
Use DynamoDB in the preparation phase to copy data to DynamoDB in another Region or to Amazon S3. During
the recovery phase of DR, you can scale up in minutes. DynamoDB global tables replicate your DynamoDB
tables automatically across your choice of Regions. DynamoDB global tables make it possible for your
applications to stay highly available, even if there is a disaster at the Region level.
=== Page 32 ===
Replicating and redeploying environments
CloudFormation OpsWorks
• Use templates to quickly deploy • Manage and deploy applications
collections of resources as needed. across fleets.
• Duplicate production environments in
a new Region or virtual private cloud
(VPC) in minutes.
When you use automation services, you can quickly replicate or redeploy environments.
With AWS CloudFormation, you can model and deploy your entire infrastructure in a text file. This template can
become the single source of truth for your infrastructure. When you use CloudFormation to manage your entire
infrastructure, it also becomes a powerful tool in your disaster recovery planning toolkit. You can use it to
duplicate complex production environments in minutes, for example, to a new Region or a new virtual private
cloud (VPC).
CloudFormation provisions your resources in a repeatable manner, which makes it possible for you to build and
rebuild your infrastructure and applications. You are not required to perform manual actions or write custom
scripts.
If you use AWS Elastic Beanstalk to host your applications, you can upload an updated application source
bundleand deploy it to your Elastic Beanstalk environment. Alternatively, you can redeploy a previously
uploaded version of an application. Remember, CloudFormation is only related to the configuration of
resources. It does not address data that might be associated with the resources. However, Elastic Beanstalk is
for the application, not the data.
Finally, AWS OpsWorks is an application management service that provides configuration management and
automation to deploy and operate applications of all types and sizes. You can define your environment as a
series of layers, and configure each layer as a tier of your application. OpsWorks has automatic host
replacement, so if you have an instance failure, it is automatically replaced. You can use OpsWorks in the DR
preparation phase to template your environment and combine it with CloudFormation in the DR recovery
phase.
=== Page 33 ===
Key takeaways: • Use features such as CRR, EBS volume
AWS disaster snapshots, and Amazon RDS snapshots to
recovery planning protect data.
• Use networking features, such as Route
53 failover and ELB, to improve
application availability.
• Use automation services, such as
CloudFormation, as part of your DR
strategy to quickly deploy duplicate
environments when needed.
• Use EventBridge to use global endpoints
to automatically restore data and failover
to functioning servers.
=== Page 34 ===
Disaster recovery patterns
Planning for Disaster
This section provides an overview of disaster recovery patterns.
=== Page 35 ===
Common disaster recovery patterns on AWS
Backup and
Pilot light Warm standby Multi-site
restore
Each pattern is suited to a different combination of RPO, RTO, and cost-effectiveness.
To minimize the impact of a disaster, organizations must invest time and resources to plan and prepare to deal
with and recover from disasters. The amount of investment for disaster planning for a particular system can
vary.
Recall that the recovery point objective (RPO) is the maximum acceptable amount of data loss after an
unplanned data-loss incident, expressed as an amount of time. Previously, you learned that the recovery time
objective (RTO) is the maximum acceptable amount of time after disaster strikes that a business process can
remain out of commission. For different combinations of recovery point objective (RPO), recovery time
objective (RTO), and cost-effectiveness, organizations often use four common disaster recovery patterns. They
are backup and restore, pilot light, warm standby, and multi-site.
As you will discover in this section, each pattern is well-suited to different requirements. Some of the patterns
provide a faster RPO and faster RTO but cost more to maintain.
=== Page 36 ===
Backup and restore pattern
Backup
Restore
Image description: The top diagram shows the backup process using a lifecycle policy. The bottom diagram
shows the restore process from a point in time.
End description.
The first disaster recovery approach is the backup and restore pattern. Backup and restore is a suitable
approach for mitigating against data loss or corruption. This approach can also be used to mitigate against a
regional disaster by replicating data to other AWS Regions, or to mitigate lack of redundancy for workloads
deployed to a single Availability Zone. In most traditional environments, data is backed up and sent offsite
regularly. If you use this method, it can take a long time to restore your system when a disaster occurs.
Amazon S3 provides a conveniently accessible destination for backup data that might be needed quickly to
perform a restore. Transferring data to and from Amazon S3 is typically done through the network and is
therefore accessible from any location. In the example backup scenario, data is copied from an S3 bucket every
30 days.
DataSync or Amazon S3 Transfer Acceleration can optionally be used as part of this configuration to automate or
increase the speed of data transfer. Then, an S3 lifecycle configuration that is applied to the bucket later moves
the backup data to less-expensive Amazon S3 storage classes every 90 days. The backup data moves to Amazon
S3 Glacier Flexible Retrievalor Amazon S3 Standard-IA, which saves on cost as the data ages and is not
frequently accessed.
In the example restore scenario, the on-premises data might be temporarily or permanently lost. Then, the
backup data can be downloaded from Amazon S3 back to the on-premises servers. If your corporate data center
remains offline, you can further ensure the ability to restore your data to your servers. You can have Amazon
EC2 servers that are ready to go in a VPC in your designated disaster recovery Region. This Region can connect
to the S3 bucket that contains your backup application data. It can read that data, and perhaps temporarily host
=== Page 37 ===
your applications while you work to restore your data center.
=== Page 38 ===
AWS Storage Gateway backup and restore pattern
Image description: AWS Cloud architecture services for data storage and the corporate data center services that
transfer data to the cloud. End description.
As part of the backup and restore pattern, you might find that it makes sense to use AWS Storage Gateway.
AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid storage service that enables your on-premises applications to use AWS Cloud
storage. You can use the service for backup and archiving, disaster recovery, cloud data processing, storage
tiering, and migration.
Your applications connect to the service through a virtual machine (VM) or hardware gateway appliance by
using standard storage protocols. These protocols include NFS, SMB, virtual tape library (VTL), and Internet
Small Computer System Interface (iSCSI). The gateway connects to AWS storage services, such as Amazon S3,
Amazon S3 Glacier, and Amazon EBS, which provide storage for files, volumes, and virtual tapes. The service
includes an optimized data transfer mechanism. It provides bandwidth management, automated network
resilience, and efficient data transfer, in addition to a local cache for low-latency on-premises access to your
most active data.
With a file gateway, you store and retrieve objects (by using the NFS or SMB protocol) in Amazon S3. You use a
local cache for low-latency access to your most recently used data. When your files are transferred to Amazon
S3, they are stored as objects and can be accessed through an NFS mount point.
The Storage Gateway volume interface presents your applications with block storage disk volumes that can be
accessed by using the iSCSI protocol. Data on these volumes is backed up as point-in-time Amazon EBS
snapshots, which enables you to access it through Amazon EC2, if needed.
The Storage Gateway tape interface presents the Storage Gateway to your existing backup application as a
virtual tape library. This library consists of a virtual media changer and virtual tape drives. You can continue to
use your existing backup applications while you write to a collection of virtual tapes. Each virtual tape is stored
in Amazon S3. When you no longer require access to data on virtual tapes, your backup application archives it
from the virtual tape library into Amazon S3 Glacier.
=== Page 39 ===
Implementing backup and restore
Preparation phase In case of disaster
• Create backups of current • Retrieve backups from Amazon
systems. S3.
• Store backups in Amazon S3. • Restore required infrastructure.
• Document procedure to restore • Restore system from backup.
from backups. • Route traffic to the new system.
If you implement the backup and restore disaster recovery pattern, the key steps that you should complete
during the preparation phase are to create backups of current systems, store the backups in Amazon S3, and
document the procedure to restore from backups. You should know which AMI to use (and build as needed),
how to restore system from backups, how to route traffic to the new system, and how to configure the
deployment.
If you implement this pattern, the key steps to complete in case of disaster are to retrieve backups from Amazon
S3, start the required infrastructure, restore the system from backups, and route traffic to the new system
(adjust DNS records accordingly). Rebuilding the infrastructure includes creating resources like EC2 instances in
addition to the Amazon VPC, subnets, and security groups needed.
For restoring infrastructure, you should use AWS resources created by an AWS CloudFormation stackto restore
infrastructure consistently across Regions. To create the EC2 instances your workload needs, use AMIs to
incorporate the required operating system and packages. In some cases, you will need to re-integrate your
infrastructure and data.
=== Page 40 ===
Pilot light pattern
Image description: This diagram illustrated how Pilot light will use Route 53 health checks to failover to a
minimal amount of servers in case of primary health check failure. End description.
The second disaster recovery approach is the pilot light pattern.
Pilot light describes a disaster recovery pattern where a minimal backup version of your environment is always
running. The pilot light analogy comes from a gas heater: a small flame (or the pilot light) is always on, even
when the heater is off. The pilot light can quickly ignite the entire furnace to heat a house. In the example
pattern, the pilot light is the secondary database that is always running. The main drawback to pilot light is that
the secondary cannot handle the entire load of the primary and will need to scale quickly to handle traffic.
The pilot light scenario is similar to the backup-and-restore scenario. However, recovery time is typically faster
because the core pieces of the system are already running and are continually kept up to date. When the time
comes for recovery, you can rapidly provision a full production environment around the critical core.
Infrastructure elements for the pilot light itself typically include your database servers. This grouping is the
critical core of the system (the pilot light). All other infrastructure pieces can quickly be provisioned around it to
restore the complete system. To provision the rest of the infrastructure, you typically bundle preconfigured
servers as AMIs that are ready to be started at a moment’s notice. (Or they might be instances that are in a
stopped state.) When recovery begins, these instances start quickly with their pre-defined role, which enables
them to connect to the database.
This pattern is relatively inexpensive to implement. Regularly changing data must be replicated to the pilot light,
the small core around which the full environment starts in the recovery phase. Your less frequently updated
data, such as operating systems and applications, can be periodically updated and stored as AMIs.
Suppose that disaster strikes, and your primary application goes offline. In this case, you can quickly commission
the compute resources to run the application or to orchestrate the failover to pilot light resources in AWS. In
this example, the secondary database stores critical data. If there is a disaster, the new web server and app
=== Page 41 ===
server start up and connect to the secondary database. Route 53 is configured to then route traffic
to the new web server.
The primary environment can exist in an on-premises data center, or in another Region or
Availability Zone on AWS. Alternatively, two Regions could be used for this architecture as opposed
to on-premises and Cloud environments. Either way, you can use the pilot light pattern to meet your
RTO.
=== Page 42 ===
Implementing pilot light pattern
Preparation phase In case of disaster
• Configure EC2 instances to • Bring up resources around the
replicate servers. replicated core dataset.
• Create and maintain Amazon • Then scale the system as needed
Machine Images (AMIs) of key to handle current production
servers where fast recovery is traffic.
needed. • Switch over to the new system.
• Regularly run, test, and update
these servers.
If you implement the pilot light disaster recovery pattern, there are key steps that you should complete during
the preparation phase. Theseare configuring the EC2 instances, ensuring that all the supporting custom
software packages are available, and creating and maintaining essential AMIs where fast recovery is required.
Because a minimal backup version of your environment is always running, you should regularly run and test
servers, and apply software updates and configuration updates. Consider automating the provisioning of AWS
resources.
With the pilot light disaster recovery pattern, your core infrastructureis available, and you always have the
option to quickly provision a full-scale production environment by switching on and scaling out your application
servers. If you implement the pilot light pattern, the key steps to complete in case of disaster are to
automatically bring up resources around the replicated core dataset. Then scale the system as needed to handle
current production traffic.
Finally, switch over to the new system by adjusting the DNS records to point to the backup deployment. Failover
redirects traffic from the primary Region (where you have determined the workload can no longer run) to the
secondary Region. With Route 53, you can set up both your primary Region and secondary Region endpoints
under one domain name. Then choose a routing policy that determines which endpoint receives traffic for that
domain name.
=== Page 43 ===
Warm standby pattern
The third disaster recovery approach is the warm standby pattern. The warm standby pattern is like the pilot
light, but more resources are already running. The term warm standby describes a disaster recovery scenario
where a scaled-down version of a fully functional environment is always running in the cloud. The warm standby
solution extends the pilot light elements and preparation. It further decreases the recovery time because some
services are always running. By identifying your business-critical systems, you can fully duplicate these systems
and have them always on.
These servers can be running on a minimum-sized fleet of EC2 instances with the smallest sizes possible. This
solution is not yet scaled to take a full production load, but it is fully functional. Though it exists for DR
purposes, you can also use it for non-production work, such as testing, quality assurance, and internal use.
In the example, two systems are running. The main system might be running in an on-premises data center or
an AWS Region, and a low-capacity system is running on AWS. Use Route 53 to distribute requests between the
main system and the backup system. Alternatively, two AWS Regions could be used for this architecture as
opposed to on-premises and Cloud environments.
Software licensing is an issue that can surface while you create backup sites. Look into the software licensing
that you have to determine whether your current license contracts support your DR plans. Upgrade your
licenses or adjust in other ways, as necessary.
In a disaster, if the primary environment is unavailable, Route 53 switches over to the secondary system. The
secondary system can then quickly begin to scale up to handle the production load. You can produce this
increase by adding more EC2 instances to the load balancer. Alternatively, you can resize the small capacity
servers to run on larger EC2 instance types.Horizontal scaling (creating more EC2 instances) is preferred over
vertical scaling (increasing the size of existing instances).
=== Page 44 ===
Implementing warm standby pattern
Preparation phase In case of disaster
• Is similar to pilot light • Failover most critical production
• Has all necessary components load immediately
running 24/7, but not scaled for • Scale the system further to handle
production traffic all production load (automatically)
• Need to conduct continuous testing
on component
If you implement the warm standby disaster recovery pattern, the preparation phase is important. The key steps
that you should complete during the preparation phase are similar to the steps that you complete for the pilot
light pattern. The most notable difference is that all the necessary components should be left running 24/7, but
not scaled for production traffic. As a best practice, conduct continuous testing. Because warm standby deploys
a functional stack to the recovery Region, this makes it more convenient to test Region readiness using synthetic
transactions. You might also trickle a statistical subset of production traffic to the DR site. Thus, you can verify
that it functions for users and systems as seamlessly as the primary system.
With the warm standby pattern, in case of disaster, the key steps to complete are to immediately fail over the
most critical production load and adjust DNS records to point to AWS. If primary and secondary health checks
are set up, and warm standby is set up, Route 53 with handle the failover. Failover routing will automatically
send traffic to the recovery Region if the primary is unhealthy based on health checks you configure.
Automatically scale the system further to handle all production load.
=== Page 45 ===
Multi-site pattern
Image description: This diagram illustrates how Pilot light will use Route 53 health checks to failover to a
complete duplicate secondary facility in case of emergency.
End description.
The fourth and final disaster recovery approach is the multi-site pattern. With this pattern, you have a fully
functional system that runs in a second Region. It runs at the same time as the on-premises systems or the
systems that run in a different Region. Alternatively, two Regions could be used for this architecture as opposed
to on-premises and Cloud environments.
A multi-site solution runs in an active-active configuration. The data replication method that you employ is
determined from the recovery point that you choose. Because both sites can support the full production
capacity, you might choose to use a DNS service that supports weighted routing. An example is Route 53, which
routes production traffic to both sites that deliver the same application or service. In this scenario, a proportion
of traffic goes to your infrastructure in AWS, and the remainder goes to your on-site infrastructure. (Or if the
two environments exist in separate Regions, the traffic is proportioned between these two Regions.)
In the example, two systems are running. The main system is running in an on-premises data center, and a full-
capacity system is running on AWS. You can adjust the DNS weighting and send all the traffic to the cloud
environment. The capacity of the deployment on the cloud can then be rapidly increased to handle the full
production load as needed. You can use Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling to automate this process. You might need
some application logic to detect the failure of the primary database services and cut over to the parallel
already-running database services.
The cost of this scenario is determined from the volume of production traffic during normal operation. In the
recovery phase, you pay for only what you use for the duration that the DR environment is needed at full scale.
You can further reduce cost by purchasing Amazon EC2 Reserved Instances for your always-on AWS servers.
=== Page 46 ===
Implementing multi-site pattern
Preparation phase In case of disaster
• Similar to warm standby Immediately failover all production
• Configured for full scaling in or load
scaling out for production load
• Consider licensing cost of complete
duplicate system
If you are implementing the multi-site disaster recovery pattern, the key steps to complete during the
preparation phase are similar to the warm standby pattern. You must configure the backup deployment for full
scaling in and out of the production load. You should have the servers running and ready to receive traffic.
Route 53 offers multiple routing policies. For geolocation routing, you configure which Region a request goes to,
based on the origin location of the request. For latency routing, AWS automatically sends requests to the Region
that provides the shortest round-trip time.
Your data governance strategy helps inform which routing policy to use. With geolocation routing, you can
distribute requests in a deterministic way. You can keep data for certain users within a specific Region, or you
can control where write operations are routed to prevent contention. If optimizing for performance is your top
priority, then latency routing is a good choice.
With the multi-site pattern, in case of disaster, you only need to complete one key step. That step is to
immediately fail over all of the production load to the backup site. The multi-site pattern potentially has the
least downtime of all. However, it does have more costs that are associated with it, because an entire duplicate
system must be created at the secondary site. Consider the licensing cost of a complete duplicate system for the
multi-site pattern.
=== Page 47 ===
Summary of common DR patterns
Backup and restore Pilot light Warm standby Multi-site
▪Solutions that ▪Solutions that require ▪Solutions that ▪Solutions that
require RTO and RTO and RPO in 10s require RTO and require RTO and
RPO in hours of minutes RPO in minutes RPO in near real-
▪Lower-priority use ▪Core services ▪Business-critical time
cases ▪Scale AWS resources services ▪Automatic failover
▪Solutions: Amazon of environment in
S3, Storage Gateway AWS to a running
duplicate
Image description: This chart shows how recovery time objective will reduce as cost increases based on which
recovery platform is used.
End description.
To summarize, each of the four DR patterns offers a different combination of benefits. The arrow shows cost
increasing from the backup and restore DR pattern to the multisite DR pattern, and RTO increasing from the
multisite DR pattern to the backup and restore DR pattern.
The backup and restore pattern typically can be accomplished at the lowest cost, but it has a longer RTO. As a
result, your systems are likely to be restored more slowly than with the other options.
The warm standby and multi-site patterns support a much faster RTO, but it is costly to have extra servers that
are always running.
With AWS, you can cost-effectively operate each of these DR strategies. It’s important to realize that these
patterns are only examples of possible approaches, and variations and combinations of these patterns are
possible. If your application runs on AWS, then you can use multiple Regions, and the same DR strategies still
apply.
=== Page 48 ===
Practice Game Day exercises
•Ensure that backups, snapshots, and AMIs are being created, and that
they can be used to successfully restore data.
•Monitor your monitoring system.
•Establish RTO and RPO, and work to improve them where possible.
Image description: This chart shows how recovery time objective will reduce as cost increases based on which
recovery platform is used.
End description.
It is a best practice to consistently exercise your DR solution so you can ensure that it works as intended.
Practice Game Day exercises, these exercises test scenarios when critical systems go offline—or even entire
Regions. What if an entire fleet crashes?
Ensure that backups, snapshots, and AMIs are being created, and that they can be used to successfully restore
data. Be sure to monitor your monitoring system.
Test your response procedures to ensure they are effective and that teams are familiar with how to put them
into practice. Set up regular Game Days to test workload and team responses to simulated events.
=== Page 49 ===
Key takeaways: • Common disaster recovery patterns on AWS
Disaster recovery include backup and restore, pilot light, warm
standby, and multi-site.
patterns
• Backup and restore is the most cost-effective
approach. However, it has the highest RTO.
• Multi-site provides the fastest RTO. However,
it costs the most because it provides a fully
running production-ready duplicate.
• Storage Gateway provides three interfaces—
File Gateway, Volume Gateway, and Tape
Gateway—for data backup and recovery
between on-premises and the AWS Cloud.
Some keytakeaways from this section of the module include the following:
• Common disaster recovery patterns on AWS include backup and restore, pilot light, warm standby, and multi-
site.
• Backup and restore is the most cost-effective approach, but it has the highest RTO.
• Multi-site provides the fastest RTO, but it costs the most because it provides a fully running production-ready
duplicate.
• AWS Storage Gateway provides three interfaces—File Gateway, Volume Gateway, and Tape Gateway—for
data backup and recovery between on-premises and the AWS Cloud.
=== Page 50 ===
Guided lab: Configuring Hybrid Storage
and Migrating Data with AWS Storage
Gateway S3 File Gateway (AWS Storage
Gateway lab)
You will now complete a lab. The next slides summarize what you will do in the lab, and you will find the
detailed instructions in the lab environment.
=== Page 51 ===
AWS Storage • In this lab, you perform the following
Gateway lab main tasks:
tasks • Configure an S3 File Gateway with an NFS file
share and attach it to a Linux instance.
• Migrate a set of data from the Linux instance to
an S3 bucket.
• Create and configure a primary S3 bucket to
migrate on-premises server data to AWS.
• Create and configure a secondary S3 bucket to
use for cross-Region replication.
• Create an S3 lifecycle policy to automatically
manage data in a bucket.
Access the lab environment through your online course to get additional details and complete the lab.
=== Page 52 ===
Debrief: AWS Storage Gateway lab
• Which configuration do you need to enable in the source bucket and
the destination bucket for cross-Region replication to work?
• How did you choose the correct AMI to use for the File Gateway
appliance?
=== Page 53 ===
Applying AWS Well-Architected
Framework principles to disaster
planning
Planning for Disaster
This section connects well-architected best practices to concepts related to disaster planning and recovery.
=== Page 54 ===
Well-Architected Framework best practices for planning
for disasters
The AWS Well-Architected Framework has six pillars, and each pillar includes best practices and a set of
questions that you should consider when you architect cloud solutions. This section highlights a few best
practicesfrom the pillars that are most relevant to this module.This includes Reliability, Operational Excellence,
and Security.
=== Page 55 ===
Best practice approach: Failure management–plan for
disaster recovery
Best practices
Define recovery objectives for downtime
and data loss.
Use defined recovery strategies to meet the
recovery objectives.
Test disaster recovery implementation to
validate the implementation.
As a cloud architect, you need to understand how to create an architecture that supports your organization's
system of prevention and recovery from potential threats.Building resilient workloads helps prepare for any
event that prevents a workload or system from fulfilling its business objectives in its primary location. Failure
management is one of the steps you must take to implement resiliency; planning for disaster recovery is one
part of failure management.
Having backups and redundant workload components in place is the start of your DR strategy.RTO and RPOare
your objectives for restoration of your workload. Set these based on business needs. Implement a strategy to
meet these objectives, considering locations and function of workload resources and data. The probability of
disruption and cost of recovery are also key factors that help to inform the business value of providing disaster
recovery for a workload.
Define recovery objectives for downtime and data loss: Every workload has an assigned RTO and RPO, defined
based on business impact. For the given workload, you must understand the impact of downtime and lost data
on your business. The impact generally grows larger with greater downtime or data loss, but the shape of this
growth can differ based on the workload type.
For example, you might be able to tolerate downtime for up to an hour with little impact, but after that, impact
quickly rises. Impact to business manifests in many forms, including monetary cost (such as lost revenue),
customer trust (and impact to reputation), operational issues (such as missing payroll or decreased
productivity), and regulatory risk.RTO and RPO are used as one of the primary considerations for selection of a
disaster recovery strategy implementation for the workload. Additional considerations in picking a DR strategy
are cost constraints, workload dependencies, and operational requirements.
Use defined recovery strategies to meet the recovery objectives: Define a DR strategy that meets your
workload's recovery objectives. Choose a strategy such as backup and restore, pilot light, warm standby, or
multi-site. Choosing a DR strategy is a trade-off between reducing downtime and data loss (RTO and RPO) and
the cost and complexity of implementing the strategy.
=== Page 56 ===
With all strategies, you must also mitigate against a data disaster. Continuously replicated data may
not protect against corruption unless you also version or snapshot your data. You must also back up
the replicated data in the recovery site to create point-in-time backups in addition to the replicas.
Test disaster recovery implementation to validate the implementation: Regularly test failover to
your recovery site to verify that it operates properly and that RTO and RPO are met. The only error
recovery that works is the path you test frequently.
In this module, you’ve learned about topics that support these best practices, including the
following:
• The elements related to avoiding and planning for disaster
• Factors that influence disaster planning strategies including RTO and RPO
• Common disaster recovery patterns such as backup and restore, pilot light, warm standby, and
multi-site
For more information, see Plan for Disaster Recovery (DR) in the AWS Well-Architected Framework
documentation which is linked in your course resources.
=== Page 57 ===
Best practice approach: Operate–manage workload and
operations events
Best practice
Define a customer communication plan
for outages.
The Operational Excellence pillar includes the ability to support development and run workloads effectively,
gain insight into your operations, and to continuously improve supporting processes and procedures to deliver
business value.One of the operating best practices can be framed as this question: How do you manage
workload and operations events? Answering this question will help you prepare and validate procedures for
responding to events to minimize their disruption to your workload.
Define a customer communication plan for outages: Define and test a communication plan for system outages
that you can rely on to keep your customers and stakeholders informed during outages. Communicate directly
with your users both when the services they use are impacted and when services return to normal.
As an example, when the workload is impaired, Any Company Retail sends out an email notification to their
users. The email describes what business functionality is impaired and provides a realistic estimate of when
service will be restored. In addition, they have a status page that shows real-time information about the health
of their workload. The communication plan is tested in a development environment twice per year to validate
that it is effective.
In this module, you’ve learned about preparing for when a disaster occurs, which supports this best practice,
including the following:
• Your organization’s BCP includes your disaster recovery plan and the logistics of disaster recovery.
• Use various AWS services and resource to design for resiliency and recovery.
For more information, see the operational excellence pillar section in the AWS Well-Architected Framework
documentation. This is linked in your course resources.
=== Page 58 ===
Best practice approach: Identity and access
management–permissions management
Best practice
Establish an emergency access process.
To use AWS services, users and applications need access to resources in your AWS accounts. Identity and access
management considerations need to be made while preparing for disasters.
Establish emergency access process:Create a process that provides emergency access to your workloads in the
unlikely event of an issue with your centralized identity provider. Design processes for different failure modes
that might result in an emergency event. For example, under normal circumstances, your workforce users
federate to the cloud using a centralized identity provider to manage their workloads. However, if your
centralized identity provider fails, or the configuration for federation in the cloud is modified, then your
workforce users might not be able to federate into the cloud.
An emergency access process gives authorized administrators access your cloud resources through alternate
means to fix issues with your federation configuration or your workloads. By having well-documented and well-
tested emergency access processes, you can reduce the time taken by your users to respond to and resolve an
emergency event. This can result in less downtime and higher availability of the services you provide to your
customers.
In this module, you've learned about opportunities to establish and test emergency processes, which support
this best practice, including the following:
• Consistently exercise your disaster recoverysolution so you can ensure that it works as intended through
Practice Game Day exercises.
• Conduct continuous testing on all components related to disaster recovery.
For more information, see the security pillar section in the Well-Architected Framework which is linked in your
course resources.
=== Page 59 ===
Key takeaways: • Define recovery objectives for downtime
Applying AWS and data loss based on business
Well-Architected requirements.
Framework
• Use defined recovery strategies to meet
principles to
the recovery objectives based on business
disaster planning
requirements.
• Test disaster recovery implementation to
validate the implementation.
• Define a customer communication plan
for outages.
• Establish an emergency access process.
=== Page 60 ===
Module wrap-up
Planning for Disaster
This section summarizes what you have learned and brings the module to a close.
=== Page 61 ===
Module summary
This module prepared you to do the following:
• Identify strategies for disaster planning, including RPO and RTO based on
business requirements.
• Identify disaster planning for AWS service categories.
• Describe common patterns for backup and disaster recovery and how to
implement them.
• Use the AWS Well-Architected Framework principles when designing a
disaster recovery plan.
=== Page 62 ===
Considerations for the cafe
• Discuss how you, as a cloud architect, might
advise the café, based on the key cloud
architect concerns presented at the start of
this module.
=== Page 63 ===
Module • The knowledge check is delivered online
knowledge check within your course.
• The knowledge check includes 10
questions based on material presented on
the slides and in the slide notes.
• You can retake the knowledge check as
many times as you like.
Use your online course to access the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 64 ===
Sample exam question
A solutions architect must create a disaster recovery (DR) solution for a company's business-critical applications.
The maximum acceptable amount of data loss is 7 minutes. The DR solution also requires the deployment of a
completely functional version of the applications to handle the majority of traffic immediately, and then scale up
to full capacity over time. Which disaster recovery pattern would provide the most cost-effective solution?
Identify the key words and phrases before continuing.
The following are the key words and phrases:
• Business-critical
• Functional version of the applications
• Handle the majority of traffic immediately
• Cost-effective
=== Page 65 ===
Sample exam question: Response choices
A solutions architect must create a disaster recovery (DR) solution for a company's business-critical applications.
The maximum acceptable amount of data loss is 7 minutes. The DR solution also requires the deployment of a
completely functional version of the applicationsto handle the majority of traffic immediately, and then scale
up to full capacity over time. Which disaster recovery pattern would provide the most cost-effectivesolution?
Choice Response
A Backup and restore
B Pilot light
C Warm standby
D Multi-site
Use the key words and phrases that you identified on the previous slide, and review each of the possible
responses to determine which one best addresses the question.
=== Page 66 ===
Sample exam question: Answer
The answer is C.
Choice Response
C Warm standby
Choice A (Backup and restore) could not restore to handle the required traffic fast enough. Backup and restore
is not a suitable solution for business-critical applications.
Choice B (Pilot light) would only handle a small amount of traffic before actively scaling up. Because the
instances are idle, it would not be able to handle the majority of traffic immediately.
Choice D (Multi-site) would meet the recovery point objective (RPO) requirement within moments. The services
are already running at full capacity within that time. However, this solution costs more than is necessary to
meet the company's requirements.
The correct answer is C: Warm standby. This solution meets the requirement for an RPO of 7 minutes. The
instances run at a low capacity and can scale within minutes. The cost related to this disaster recovery pattern is
less than multi-site.
=== Page 67 ===
Thank you
Corrections, feedback, or other questions?
Contact us at https://support.aws.amazon.com/#/contacts/aws-academy.
That concludes this module. The content resources page of your course includes links to additional resources
that are related to this module.