# Clean Text Extracted from: M06SG.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-10-11 00:31:39
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
Module 06 Student Guide
Version 2.0.14
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 6: Compute 4
=== Page 4 ===
Module 6: Compute
Welcome to Module 6: Compute
=== Page 5 ===
Module overview
Topics Activities
• Compute services overview • Amazon EC2 versus Managed Service
• Hands-on with AWS Lambda
• Amazon EC2
• Hands-on with AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• Amazon EC2 cost optimization
• Container services
Demo
• Introduction to AWS Lambda
• Recorded demonstration of Amazon EC2
• Introduction to AWS Elastic Beanstalk
Lab
• Introduction to Amazon EC2
Knowledge check
This module will address the following topics:
• Compute services overview
• Amazon EC2
• Amazon EC2 cost optimization
• Container services
• Introduction to AWS Lambda
• Introduction to AWS Elastic Beanstalk
Section 2 includes a recorded Amazon EC2 demonstration.The end of this same section includes
a hands-on lab, where you will practice launching an EC2 instance by using the AWS
Management Console. There is also an activity in this section that has you compare the
advantages and disadvantages of running a database deployment on Amazon EC2, versus running
it on Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS).
Section 5 includes a hands-on AWS Lambda activity and section 6 includes a hands-on Elastic
Beanstalk activity.
Finally, you will be asked to complete a knowledge check that will test your understanding of the
key concepts that are covered in this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module objectives
After completing this module, you should be able to:
• Provide an overview of different AWS compute services in the cloud
• Demonstrate why to use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Identify the functionality in the EC2 console
• Perform basic functions in Amazon EC2 to build a virtual computing
environment
• Identify Amazon EC2 cost optimization elements
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Lambda
• Identify how to run containerized applications in a cluster of managed servers
After completing this module, you should be able to:
• Provide an overview of different AWS compute services in the cloud
• Demonstrate why to use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Identify the functionality in the EC2 console
• Perform basic functions in EC2 to build a virtual computing environment
• Identify EC2 cost optimization elements
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Lambda
• Identify how to run containerized applications in a cluster of managed servers
=== Page 7 ===
Section 1: Compute services
overview
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 1: Compute services overview.
=== Page 8 ===
AWS compute services
Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers many compute services. This module will discuss the highlighted services.
Amazon EC2 Amazon EC2 Amazon Elastic Amazon Elastic VMware Cloud
Auto Scaling Container Registry Container Service on AWS
(Amazon ECR) (Amazon ECS)
AWS Elastic AWS Lambda Amazon Elastic Amazon Lightsail AWS Batch
Beanstalk Kubernetes Service
(Amazon EKS)
AWS Fargate AWS Outposts AWS Serverless
Application Repository
Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers many compute services. Here is a brief summary of what
each compute service offers:
• Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides resizable virtual machines.
• Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling supports application availability by allowing you to define conditions
that will automatically launch or terminate EC2 instances.
• Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) is used to store and retrieve Docker images.
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)is a container orchestration service that
supports Docker.
• VMware Cloud on AWS enables you to provision a hybrid cloud without custom hardware.
• AWS Elastic Beanstalkprovides a simple way to run and manage web applications.
• AWS Lambda is a serverless compute solution. You pay only for the compute time that you
use.
• Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) enables you to run managed Kubernetes on
AWS.
• Amazon Lightsailprovides a simple-to-use service for building an application or website.
• AWS Batch provides a tool for running batch jobs at any scale.
• AWS Fargate provides a way to run containers that reduce the need for you to manage servers
or clusters.
• AWS Outposts provides a way to run select AWS services in your on-premises data center.
• AWS Serverless Application Repositoryprovides a way to discover, deploy, and publish
serverless applications.
This module will discuss details of the services that are highlighted on the slide.
=== Page 9 ===
Categorizing compute services
Services Key Concepts Characteristics Ease of Use
• Amazon EC2 • Infrastructure as a service • Provision virtual machines that A familiar concept to many
(IaaS) you can manage as you choose IT professionals.
• Instance-based
• Virtual machines
• AWS Lambda • Serverlesscomputing • Write and deploy code that runs A relatively new concept for
• Function-based on a schedule or that can be many IT staff members, but
• Low-cost triggered by events easy to use after you learn
• Use when possible (architect for how.
the cloud)
• Amazon ECS • Container-basedcomputing • Spin up and run jobs more AWS Fargate reduces
• Amazon EKS • Instance-based quickly administrative overhead, but
• AWS Fargate you can use options that give
• Amazon ECR you more control.
• AWS Elastic • Platform as a service (PaaS) • Focus on your code (building Fast and easy to get started.
Beanstalk • For web applications your application)
• Can easily tie into other
services—databases, Domain
Name System (DNS), etc.
You can think of each AWS compute service as belonging to one of four broad categories: virtual
machines (VMs) that provide infrastructure as a service (IaaS), serverless, container-based, and
platform as a service (PaaS).
Amazon EC2provides virtual machines, and you can think of it as infrastructure as a service
(IaaS). IaaS services provide flexibility and leave many of the server management responsibilities
to you. You choose the operating system, and you also choose the size and resource capabilities
of the servers that you launch. For IT professionals who have experience using on-premises
computing, virtual machines are a familiar concept. Amazon EC2 was one of the first AWS
services, and it remains one of the most popular services.
AWS Lambda is a zero-administration compute platform. AWS Lambda enables you to run code
without provisioning or managing servers. You pay only for the compute time that is consumed.
This serverless technology concept is relatively new to many IT professionals. However, it is
becoming more popular because it supports cloud-native architectures, which enable massive
scalability at a lower cost than running servers 24/7 to support the same workloads.
Container-based services—including Amazon Elastic Container Service, Amazon Elastic
Kubernetes Service, AWS Fargate, and Amazon Elastic Container Registry—enable you to run
multiple workloads on a single operating system (OS). Containers spin up more quickly than
virtual machines, thus offering responsiveness. Container-based solutions continue to grow in
popularity.
Finally, AWS Elastic Beanstalk provides a platform as a service (PaaS). It facilitates the quick
deployment of applications that you create by providing all the application services that you
need. AWS manages the OS, the application server, and the other infrastructure components so
© 2024, Amatzhoant W yeobu S ecravince fso, Icnuc.s o or ints adfefilviaetelso. pAilln rigg hytso ruesre arvpepd.l ication code. 9
=== Page 10 ===
Choosing the optimal compute service
• The optimal compute service or services that you use will depend on
your use case
• Some aspects to consider –
• What is your application design?
• What are your usage patterns?
• Which configuration settings will you want to manage?
• Selecting the wrong compute solution for an architecture can lead to
lower performance efficiency
• A good starting place—Understand the available compute options
AWS offers many compute services because different use cases benefit from different compute
environments. The optimal compute service or services that you use will depend on your use
case.
Often, the compute architecture that you use is determined by legacy code. However, that does
not mean that you cannot evolve the architecture to take advantage of proven cloud-native
designs.
Best practices include:
• Evaluate the available compute options
• Understand the available compute configuration options
• Collect computer-related metrics
• Use the available elasticity of resources
• Re-evaluate compute needs based on metrics
Sometimes, a customer will start with one compute solution and decide to change the design
based on their analysis of metrics. If you are interested in seeing an example of how a customer
modified their choice of compute services for a particular use case, view this Inventory Tracking
solution video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zr3Kib0i-
OQ&feature=youtu.be&did=ta_card&trk=ta_card.
=== Page 11 ===
Section 2: Amazon EC2
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 2: Amazon EC2.
=== Page 12 ===
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
Example uses of
Amazon EC2 instances
✓ Application server
✓ Web server
✓ Database server
✓ Game server
✓ Mail server
✓ Media server
✓ Catalog server
Photo byTaylor VickonUnsplash ✓ File server
✓ Computing server
✓ Proxy server
Photo by panumas nikhomkhai from Pexels
Running servers on-premises is an expensive undertaking. Hardware must be procured, and this
procurement can be based on project plans instead of the reality of how the servers are used.
Data centers are expensive to build, staff, and maintain. Organizations also need to permanently
provision a sufficient amount of hardware to handle traffic spikes and peak workloads. After
traditional on-premises deployments are built, server capacity might be unused and idle for a
significant portion of the time that the servers are running, which is wasteful.
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides virtual machines where you can host the
same kinds of applications that you might run on a traditional on-premises server. It provides
secure, resizable compute capacity in the cloud. EC2 instances can support a variety of
workloads. Common uses for EC2 instances include, but are not limited to:
• Application servers
• Web servers
• Database servers
• Game servers
• Mail servers
• Media servers
• Catalog servers
• File servers
• Computing servers
• Proxy servers
=== Page 13 ===
Amazon EC2 overview
• Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Provides virtual machines—referred to as EC2
instances—in the cloud.
• Gives you full control over the guest operating system
(Windows or Linux) on each instance.
• You can launch instances of any size into an
Availability Zone anywhere in the world.
• Launch instances from Amazon Machine Images (AMIs).
Amazon
EC2 • Launch instances with a few clicks or a line of code, and
they are ready in minutes.
• You can control traffic to and from instances.
The EC2in Amazon EC2 stands for Elastic Compute Cloud:
• Elastic refers to the fact that you can easily increase or decrease the number of servers you run
to support an application automatically, and you can also increase or decrease the size of
existing servers.
• Compute refers to reason why most users run servers in the first place, which is to host
running applications or process data—actions that require compute resources, including
processing power (CPU) and memory (RAM).
• Cloud refers to the fact that the EC2 instances that you run are hosted in the cloud.
Amazon EC2 provides virtual machines in the cloud and gives you full administrative control over
the Windows or Linux operating system that runs on the instance. Most server operating systems
are supported, including: Windows 2008, 2012, 2016, and 2019, Red Hat, SuSE, Ubuntu, and
Amazon Linux.
An operating system that runs on a virtual machine is often called a guest operating system to
distinguish it from the host operating system. The host operating system is directly installed on
any server hardware that hosts one or more virtual machines.
With Amazon EC2, you can launch any number of instances of any size into any Availability Zone
anywhere in the world in a matter of minutes. Instances launch from Amazon Machine Images
(AMIs), which are effectively virtual machine templates. AMIs are discussed in more detail later
in this module.
You can control traffic to and from instances by using security groups. Also, because the servers
run in the AWS Cloud, you can build solutions that take use multiple AWS services.
=== Page 14 ===
Launching an Amazon EC2 instance
This section of the module
walks through nine key
decisionsto make when you
create an EC2 instance by using
the AWS Management Console
Launch Instance Wizard.
➢Along the way, essential
Amazon EC2 concepts will be
explored.
The first time you launch an Amazon EC2 instance, you will likely use the AWS Management
Console Launch Instance Wizard. You will have the opportunity to experience using the Launch
Wizard in the labthat is in this module.
The Launch Instance Wizard makes it easy to launch an instance. For example, if you choose to
accept all the default settings, you can skip most of the steps that are provided by the wizard and
launch an EC2 instance in as few as six clicks. An example of this process is shown in the
demonstrationat the end of this section.
However, for most deployments you will want to modify the default settings so that the servers
you launch are deployed in a way that matches your specific needs.
The next series of slides introduce you to the essential choices that you must make when you
launch an instance. The slides cover essential concepts that are good to know when you make
these choices. These concepts are described to help you understand the options that are
available, and the effects of the decisions that you will make.
=== Page 15 ===
1. Select an AMI
Choices made using the Launch
Launch Instance Wizard: instance
AMI Instance
1. AMI
• Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
2. Instance Type
3. Network settings • Is a template that is used to create an EC2 instance (which is a virtual
4. IAM role machine, or VM,that runs in the AWS Cloud)
5. User data • Contains a Windowsor Linuxoperating system
6. Storage options
• Often also has some softwarepre-installed
7. Tags
• AMI choices:
8. Security group
9. Key pair
• Quick Start–Linux and Windows AMIs that are provided by AWS
• My AMIs–Any AMIs that you created
• AWS Marketplace –Pre-configured templates from third parties
• Community AMIs –AMIs shared by others; use at your own risk
An Amazon Machine Image (AMI) provides information that is required to launch an EC2
instance. You must specify a source AMI when you launch an instance. You can use different AMIs
to launch different types of instances. For example, you can choose one AMI to launch an
instance that will become a web server and another AMI to deploy an instance that will host an
application server. You can also launch multiple instances from a single AMI.
An AMI includes the following components:
• A template for the root volume of the instance. A root volume typically contains an operating
system (OS) and everything that was installed in that OS (applications, libraries, etc.). Amazon
EC2 copies the template to the root volume of a new EC2 instance, and then starts it.
• Launch permissions that control which AWS accounts can use the AMI.
• A block device mapping that specifies the volumes to attach to the instance (if any) when it is
launched.
You can choose many AMIs:
• Quick Start –AWS offers a number of pre-built AMIs for launching your instances. These AMIs
include many Linux and Windows options.
• My AMIs –These AMIs are AMIs that you created.
• AWS Marketplace –The AWS Marketplace offers a digital catalog that lists thousands of
software solutions. These AMIs can offer specific use cases to help you get started quickly.
• Community AMIs –These AMIs are created by people all around the world. These AMIs are
not checked by AWS, so use them at your own risk. Community AMIs can offer many different
solutions to various problems, but use them with care. Avoid using them in any production or
corporate environment.
=== Page 16 ===
Creating a new AMI: Example
AWS Cloud
AMIdetails
Region A
Connect to the instance
and manually modify it
orrun a script that
Quick
modifies the instance
Start or
Launchan (for example, upgrade Captureas
other
Starter instance installed software) a new AMI
existing
AMI
AMI 1 2 3
Unmodified Modified New
Instance Instance AMI
(Optional) Import MyAMI
a virtual machine
Region B Copythe AMI to any other Regions
where you want to use it
New
AMI
An AMI is created from an EC2 instance. You can importa virtual machine so that it becomes an
EC2 instance, and then save the EC2 instance as an AMI. You can then launch an EC2 instance
from that AMI. Alternatively, you can start with an existing AMI—such as of the Quick Start AMIs
provided by AWS—and create an EC2 instance from it.
Regardless of which options you chose (step 1), you will have what the diagram refers to as an
unmodified instance. From that instance, you might then create a golden instance—that is, a
virtual machine that you configured with the specific OS and application settings that you want
(step 2)—and then capture that as a new AMI (step 3). When you create an AMI, Amazon EC2
stops the instance, creates a snapshot of its root volume, and finally registers the snapshot as an
AMI.
After an AMI is registered, the AMI can be used to launch new instances in the same AWS Region.
The new AMI can now be thought of as a new starter AMI. You might want to also copy the AMI
to other Regions (step 4), so that EC2 instances can also be launched in those locations.
=== Page 17 ===
2. Select an instance type
• Consider your use case
Choices made using the • How will the EC2 instance you create be used?
Launch Instance Wizard:
• The instance type that you choose determines –
• Memory(RAM)
1. AMI
2. Instance Type • Processing power(CPU)
3. Network settings • Disk space and disk type(Storage)
4. IAM role
• Network performance
5. User data
• Instance type categories –
6. Storage options
7. Tags • General purpose
8. Security group • Compute optimized
9. Key pair
• Memory optimized
• Storage optimized
• Accelerated computing
• Instance types offer family, generation, and size
After you choose the AMI for launching the instance, you must choose on an instance type.
Amazon EC2 provides a selection of instance types that optimized to fit different use cases.
Instance types comprise varying combinations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity.
The different instance types give you the flexibility to choose the appropriate mix of resources for
your applications. Each instance type includes one or more instance sizes, which enable you to
scale your resources to the requirements of your target workload.
Instance type categories include general purpose, compute optimized, memory optimized,
storage optimized, and accelerated computing instances. Each instance type category offers many
instance types to choose from.
=== Page 18 ===
EC2 instance type naming and sizes
Example instance sizes
Instance
Instance type naming vCPU Memory (GB) Storage
Name
t3.nano 2 0.5 EBS-Only
• Example: t3.large
t3.micro 2 1 EBS-Only
• Tis the family name
• 3is the generation number t3.small 2 2 EBS-Only
• Largeis the size
t3.medium 2 4 EBS-Only
t3.large 2 8 EBS-Only
t3.xlarge 4 16 EBS-Only
t3.2xlarge 8 32 EBS-Only
When you look at an EC2 instance type, you will see that its name has several parts. For example,
consider the T type.
T is the family name, which is then followed by a number. Here, that number is 3.
The number is the generation number of that type. So, a t3 instance is the third generation of the
T family. In general, instance types that are of a higher generation are more powerful and provide
a better value for the price.
The next part of the name is the size portion of the instance. When you compare sizes, it is
important to look at the coefficient portion of the size category.
For example, a t3.2xlarge has twice the vCPU and memory of a t3.xlarge. The t3.xlarge has, in
turn, twice the vCPU and memory of a t3.large.
It is also important to note that network bandwidth is also tied to the size of the Amazon EC2
instance. If you will run jobs that will be very network-intensive, you might be required to
increase the instance specifications to meet your needs.
=== Page 19 ===
Select instance type: Based on use case
General Compute Memory Accelerated Storage
Purpose Optimized Optimized Computing Optimized
a1, m4, m5, r4, r5, f1, g3, g4,
InstanceTypes c4, c5 d2, h1, i3
t2, t3 x1, z1 p2, p3
High In-memory Machine Distributed file
Use Case Broad
performance databases learning systems
Instance types vary in several ways, including: CPU type, CPU or core count, storage type, storage
amount, memory amount, and network performance. The chart provides a high-level view of the
different instance categories, and which instance type families and generation numbers fit into
each category type. Consider a few of the instance types in more detail:
• T3 instances provide burstable performance general purpose instances that provide a baseline
level of CPU performance with the ability to burst above the baseline. Use cases for this type
of instance include websites and web applications, development environments, build servers,
code repositories, microservices, test and staging environments, and line-of-business
applications.
• C5instances are optimized for compute-intensive workloads, and deliver cost-effective high
performance at a low price per compute ratio. Use cases include scientific modeling, batch
processing, ad serving, highly scalable multiplayer gaming, and video encoding.
• R5instances are optimized for memory-intensive applications. Use cases include high-
performance databases, data mining and analysis, in-memory databases, distributed web-scale
in-memory caches, applications that perform real-time processing of unstructured big data,
Apache Hadoop or Apache Spark clusters, and other enterprise applications.
To learn more about each instance type, see the Amazon EC2Instance Types documentation at
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/.
=== Page 20 ===
Instance types: Networking features
• The network bandwidth (Gbps) varies by instance type.
• See Amazon EC2 Instance Types to compare.
• To maximize networking and bandwidth performance of your instance type:
• If you have interdependent instances, launch them into a cluster placement group.
• Enable enhanced networking.
• Enhanced networking types are supported on most instance types.
• See the Networking and Storage Features documentation for details.
• Enhanced networking types –
• Elastic Network Adapter (ENA): Supports network speeds of up to 100 Gbps.
• Intel 82599 Virtual Function interface: Supports network speeds of up to 10 Gbps.
In addition to considering the CPU, RAM, and storage needs of your workloads, it is also
important to consider your network bandwidth requirements.
Each instance type provides a documented network performance level. For example, an
a1.medium instance will provide up to 10 Gbps, but a p3dn.24xlarge instance provides up to 100
Gbps. Choose an instance type that meets your requirements.
When you launch multiple new EC2 instances, Amazon EC2 attempts to place the instances so
that they are spread out across the underlying hardware by default. It does this to minimize
correlated failures. However, if you want to specify specific placement criteria, you can
useplacement groupsto influence the placement of a group of interdependentinstances to
meet the needs of your workload. For example, you might specify that three instances should all
be deployed in the same Availability Zone to ensure lower network latency and higher network
throughput between instances. See the Placement Group documentation at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/placement-groups.htmlfor details.
Many instance types also enable you to configure enhanced networking to get significantly higher
packet per second (PPS) performance, lower delay variation in the arrival of packets over the
network (network jitter), and lower latencies. See the Elastic Network Adapter (ENA)
documentation at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/enhanced-
networking-ena.htmlfor details.
=== Page 21 ===
3. Specify network settings
• Where should the instance be deployed?
Choices made by using the
• Identify the VPCand optionally the subnet
Launch Instance Wizard:
• Should a public IP address be automatically assigned?
1. AMI • To make it internet-accessible
2. Instance Type
3. Network settings
AWS Cloud
4. IAM role
Region
5. User data
6. Storage options Availability Zone 1 Availability Zone 2
7. Tags VPC
8. Security group Example: specify Public subnet
9. Key pair to deploy the
instance here
Instance
Private
subnet
After you have choose an AMI and an instance type, you must specify the network location
where the EC2 instance will be deployed. The choice of Regionmust be made before you start
the Launch Instance Wizard. Verify that you are in the correct Region page of the Amazon EC2
console before you choose Launch Instance.
When you launch an instance in a default VPC, AWS will assign it a public IP address by default.
When you launch an instance into a nondefault VPC, the subnet has an attribute that determines
whether instances launched into that subnet receive a public IP address from the public IPv4
address pool. By default, AWS will not assign a public IP address to instances that are launched in
a nondefault subnet. You can control whether your instance receives a public IP address by either
modifying the public IP addressing attribute of your subnet, or by enabling or disabling the public
IP addressing feature during launch (which overrides the subnet's public IP addressing attribute).
=== Page 22 ===
4. Attach IAM role (optional)
• Will software on the EC2 instance need to interact with other
Choices made by using the AWS services?
Launch Instance Wizard:
• If yes, attach an appropriate IAM Role.
1. AMI • An AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) role that is
2. Instance Type attached to an EC2 instance is kept in an instance profile.
3. Network settings
• You are notrestricted to attaching a role only at instance
4. IAM role
launch.
5. User data
6. Storage options • You can also attach a role to an instance that already exists.
7. Tags
8. Security group Example: Application on
9. Key pair attached to instance can
access
Role that grants Amazon
S3 bucket
Simple Storage Service Instance
with objects
(Amazon S3) bucket
access permissions
It is common to use EC2 instances to run an application that must make secure API calls to other
AWS services. To support these use cases, AWS enables you to attach an AWS Identity and
Access Management (IAM) role to an EC2 instance. Without this feature, you might be tempted
to place AWS credentials on an EC2 instance so an application that runs on that instance to use.
However, you should never store AWS credentials on an EC2 instance. It is highly insecure.
Instead, attach an IAM role to the EC2 instance. The IAM role then grants permission to make
application programming interface (API) requests to the applications that run on the EC2
instance.
An instance profileis a container for an IAM role. If you use the AWS Management Console to
create a role for Amazon EC2, the console automatically creates an instance profile and gives it
the same name as the role. When you then use the Amazon EC2 console to launch an instance
with an IAM role, you can select a role to associate with the instance. In the console, the list that
displays is actually a list of instance profile names.
In the example, you see that an IAM role is used to grant permissions to an application that runs
on an EC2 instance. The application must access a bucket in Amazon S3.
You can attach an IAM role when you launch the instance, but you can also attach a role to an
already running EC2 instance. When you define a role that can be used by an EC2 instance, you
define which accounts or AWS services can assume the role. You also define which API actions
=== Page 23 ===
and resources the application can use after it assumes the role. If you change a role, the change is
propagated to all instances that have the role attached to them.
=== Page 24 ===
5. User data script (optional)
Choices made by using the User data
Launch Instance Wizard:
#!/bin/bash
1. AMI yum update –y
2. Instance Type yum install -y wget
AMI Running
3. Network settings
EC2 instance
4. IAM role
5. User data • Optionally specify a user data script at instance launch
6. Storage options
• Use user data scriptsto customize the runtime environment of
7. Tags
your instance
8. Security group
9. Key pair • Script runs the first time the instance starts
• Can be used strategically
• For example, reduce the number of custom AMIs that you build and
maintain
When you create your EC2 instances, you have the option of passing user data to the instance.
User data can automate the completion of installations and configurations at instance launch. For
example, a user data script might patch and update the instance's operating system, fetch and
install software license keys, or install additional software.
In the example user data script, you see a simple three-line LinuxBash shell script. The first line
indicates that the script should be run by the Bash shell. The second line invokes the Yellowdog
Updater, Modified (YUM) utility, which is commonly used in many Linux distributions—such as
Amazon Linux, CentOS, and Red Hat Linux—to retrieve software from an online repository and
install it. In line two of the example, that command tells YUM to update all installed packages to
the latest versions that are known to the software repository that it is configured to access. Line
three of the script indicates that the Wget utility should be installed. Wget is a common utility for
downloading files from the web.
For a Windowsinstance, the user data script should be written in a format that is compatible
with a Command Prompt window (batch commands) or with Windows PowerShell. See the
Windows User Data Scripts documentation for details at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/WindowsGuide/ec2-windows-user-data.html.
When the EC2instance is created, the user data script will run with root privileges during the
final phases of the boot process. On Linux instances, it is run by the cloud-initservice. On
Windows instances, it is run by the EC2Configor EC2Launchutility. By default, user data only
runs the first time that the instance starts up. However, if you would like your user data script to
run every time the instance is booted, you can create a Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions
(MIME) multipart file user data script (this process is not commonly done). See
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/execute-user-data-ec2/for more
=== Page 25 ===
information.
=== Page 26 ===
6. Specify storage
• Configure the root volume
Choices made by using the
Launch Instance Wizard: • Where the guest operating system is installed
• Attach additional storage volumes (optional)
1. AMI
2. Instance Type • AMI might already include more than one volume
3. Network settings
• For each volume, specify:
4. IAM role
5. User data • The sizeof the disk (in GB)
6. Storage options
• The volume type
7. Tags
8. Security group • Different types of solid state drives (SSDs) and hard
9. Key pair disk drives (HDDs) are available
• If the volume will be deleted when the instance is
terminated
• If encryption should be used
When you launch an EC2 instance, you can configure storage options. For example, you can
configure the size of the root volume where the guest operating system is installed. You can also
attach additional storage volumes when you launch the instance. Some AMIs are also configured
to launch more than one storage volume by default to provide storage that is separate from the
root volume.
For each volume that your instance will have, you can specify the size of the disks, the volume
types, and whether the storage will be retained if the instance is terminated. You can also specify
if encryption should be used.
=== Page 27 ===
Amazon EC2 storage options
• Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS) –
• Durable, block-level storage volumes.
• You can stop the instance and start it again, and the data will still be there.
• Amazon EC2 Instance Store –
• Ephemeral storage is provided on disks that are attached to the host computer where the EC2
instance is running.
• If the instance stops, data stored here is deleted.
• Other options for storage (not for the root volume) –
• Mount an Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) file system.
• Connect to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3).
Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS)is an easy-to-use, high-performance durable block
storageservice that is designed to be used with Amazon EC2 for both throughput-and
transaction-intensive workloads. With Amazon EBS, you can choose from four different volume
types to balance the optimal price and performance. You can change volume types or increase
volume size without disrupting your critical applications, so you can have cost-effective storage
when you need it.
Amazon EC2Instance Storeprovides ephemeral, or temporary, block-level storage for your
instance. This storage is located on disks that are physically attached to the host computer.
Instance Store works well when you must temporarily store information that changes frequently,
such as buffers, caches, scratch data, and other temporary content. You can also use Instance
Store for data that is replicated across a fleet of instances, such as a load balanced pool of web
servers. If the instances are stopped—either because of user error or a malfunction—the data on
the instance store will be deleted.
Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) provides a simple, scalable, fully managed elastic
Network File System (NFS) file system for use with AWS Cloud services and on-premises
resources. It is built to scale on-demand to petabytes without disrupting applications. It grows
and shrinks automatically as you add and remove files, which reduces the need to provision and
manage capacity to accommodate growth.
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers scalability,
data availability, security, and performance. You can store and protect any amount of data for a
variety of use cases, such as websites, mobile apps, backup and restore, archive, enterprise
applications, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and big data analytics.
=== Page 28 ===
Example storage options
• Instance 1 characteristics –
Host computer
• It has an Amazon EBSroot volume Amazon Elastic
Block Store
type for the operating system.
(Amazon EBS) InstanceStore
• What will happen if the instance is
stopped and then started again? Attached as Attached as
Rootvolume Storagevolume
20-GB volume Instance 1 Ephemeral
volume 1
• Instance 2 characteristics – Attached as
Storagevolume
• It has an Instance Storeroot Attached as
volumetype for the operating 500-GB volume Rootvolume
system. Instance 2 Ephemeral
volume 2
• What will happen if the instance
stops (because of user error or a
system malfunction)?
Here, you see two examples of how storage options could be configured for EC2 instances.
The Instance 1example shows that the root volume—which contains the OS and possibly other
data—is stored on Amazon EBS. This instance also has two attached volumes. One volume is a
500-GB Amazon EBS storage volume, and the other volume is an Instance Store volume. If this
instance was stopped and then started again, the OS would survive and any data that was stored
on either the 20-GB Amazon EBS volume or the 500-GB Amazon EBS volume would remain intact.
However, any data that was stored on Ephemeral volume 1 would be permanently lost. Instance
Store works well for temporarily storing information that changes frequently, such as buffers,
caches, scratch data, and other temporary content.
The Instance 2example shows that the root volume is on an instance store (Ephemeral volume
2). An instance with an Instance Store root volume cannot be stopped by an Amazon EC2 API
call. It can only be terminated.However, it could be stopped from within the instance's OS (for
example, by issuing a shutdown command)—or it could stop because of OS or disk failure—which
would cause the instance to be terminated. If the instance was terminated, all the data that was
stored on Ephemeral volume 2 would be lost, including the OS. You would not be able to start the
instance again. Therefore, do not rely on Instance Store for valuable, long-term data. Instead, use
more durable data storage, such as Amazon EBS, Amazon EFS, or Amazon S3.
If an instance reboots (intentionally or unintentionally), data on the instance store root volume
does persist.
=== Page 29 ===
7. Add tags
• A tag is a label that you can assign to an AWS
Choices made by using the resource.
Launch Instance Wizard:
• Consists of akeyand an optionalvalue.
1. AMI • Tagging is how you can attach metadata to an EC2
2. Instance Type
instance.
3. Network settings
4. IAM role
• Potential benefits of tagging—Filtering, automation,
5. User data
cost allocation, and access control.
6. Storage options
7. Tags
8. Security group
Example:
9. Key pair
A tag is a label that you assign to an AWS resource. Each tag consists of a keyand an
optionalvalue, both of which you define. Tags enable you to categorize AWS resources, such as
EC2 instances, in different ways. For example, you might tag instances by purpose, owner, or
environment.
Tagging is how you can attach metadata to an EC2 instance.
Tag keys and tag values are case-sensitive. For example, a commonly used tag for EC2 instances is
a tag key that is called Name and a tag value that describes the instance, such as My Web Server.
The Name tag is exposed by default in the Amazon EC2 console Instancespage. However, if you
create a key that is called name (with lower-case n), it will not appear in the Namecolumn for
the list of instances (though it will still appear in the instance details panel in the Tagstab).
It is a best practice to develop tagging strategies. Using a consistent set of tag keys makes it
easier for you to manage your resources. You can also search and filter the resources based on
the tags that you add. See https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/aws-tagging-best-practices.pdf
for more information.
=== Page 30 ===
8. Security group settings
• A security group is a set of firewall rules that control
Choices made by using the traffic to the instance.
Launch Instance Wizard:
• It exists outsideof the instance's guest OS.
1. AMI • Create rules that specify the source and which ports
2. Instance Type that network communications can use.
3. Network settings
4. IAM role • Specify the portnumber and the protocol, such as
5. User data Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), User Datagram Protocol
6. Storage options (UDP), or Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP).
7. Tags
• Specify the source(for example, an IP address or another
8. Security group
security group) that is allowed to use the rule.
9. Key pair
Example rule:
Asecurity groupacts as a virtual firewall that controls network traffic for one or more instances.
When you launch an instance, you can specify one or more security groups; otherwise, the
default security group is used.
You can add rulesto each security group. Rules allow traffic to or from its associated instances.
You can modify the rules for a security group at any time, and the new rules will be automatically
applied to all instances that are associated with the security group. When AWS decides whether
to allow traffic to reach an instance, all the rules from all the security groups that are associated
with the instance are evaluated. When you launch an instance in a virtual private cloud (VPC), you
must either create a new security group or use one that already exists in that VPC. After you
launch an instance, you can change its security groups.
When you define a rule, you can specify the allowable source of the network communication
(inbound rules) or destination (outbound rules). The sourcecan be an IP address, an IP address
range, another security group, a gateway VPC endpoint, or anywhere (which means that all
sources will be allowed). By default, a security group includes an outbound rule that allows all
outboundtraffic. You can remove the ruleand add outbound rules that only allow specific
outbound traffic. If your security group has no outbound rules, no outboundtraffic that
originates from your instance is allowed.
=== Page 31 ===
In the example rule, the rule allows Secure Shell (SSH) traffic over Transmission Control Protocol
(TCP) port 22 if the source of the request is My IP. The My IP IP address is calculated by determining
what IP address you are currently connected to the AWS Cloud from when you define the rule.
Network access control lists (network ACLs) can also be used are firewalls to protect subnets in a
VPC.
For accessibility:Screenshot of the EC2console screen where you can define a security group rule. It
shows a rule with type SSH, protocol TCP, port range 22, source My IP, and a CIDR block that shows
an example My IP address. End of accessibility description.
=== Page 32 ===
9. Identify or create the key pair
• At instance launch, you specify an existing key
Choices made by using the pair or create a new key pair.
Launch Instance Wizard:
• A key pair consists of –
1. AMI mykey.pem
• A public keythat AWS stores.
2. Instance Type
3. Network settings • A private keyfile that you store.
4. IAM role
• It enables secure connections to the instance.
5. User data
6. Storage options • For Windows AMIs –
7. Tags
8. Security group • Use the private key to obtain the administrator
9. Key pair password that you need to log in to your instance.
• For Linux AMIs –
• Use the private key to use SSH to securely connect
to your instance.
After you specify all the required configurations to launch an EC2 instance, and after you
customize any optional EC2 launch wizard configuration settings, you are presented with a
Review Instance Launch window. If you then choose Launch, a dialog asks you to choose an
existing key pair, proceed without a key pair, or create a new key pair before you can choose
Launch Instances and create the EC2 instance.
Amazon EC2 uses public–key cryptography to encrypt and decrypt login information. The
technology uses a public key to encrypt a piece of data, and then the recipient uses the private
key to decrypt the data. The public and private keys are known as akey pair. Public-key
cryptography enables you to securely access your instances by using a private key instead of a
password.
When you launch an instance, you specify a key pair. You can specify an existing key pair or a new
key pair that you create at launch. If you create a new key pair, download it and save it in a safe
location. This opportunity is the only chance you get to save the private key file.
To connect to a Windowsinstance, use the private key to obtain the administrator password, and
then log in to the EC2 instance's Windows Desktop by using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP). To
establish an SSH connection from a Windows machine to an Amazon EC2 instance, you can use a
tool such as PuTTY, which will require the same private key.
With Linuxinstances, at boot time, the public key content is placed on the instance. An entry is
created in within ~/.ssh/authorized_keys. To log in to your Linux instance (for
example, by using SSH), you must provide the private key when you establish the connection.
=== Page 33 ===
Amazon EC2 console view of a running EC2 instance
After you choose Launch Instances and then choose View Instances, you will be presented with a
screen that looks similar to the example.
Many of the settings that you specified during launch are visible in the Descriptionpanel.
Information about the available instance includes IP address and DNS address information, the
instance type, the unique instance ID that was assigned to the instance, the AMI ID of the AMI
that you used to launch the instance, the VPC ID, the subnet ID, and more.
Many of these details provide hyperlinks that you can choose to learn more information about
the resources that are relevant to the EC2 instance you launched.
=== Page 34 ===
Another option: Launch an EC2 instance with the AWS
Command Line Interface
• EC2 instances can also be created
programmatically.
AWS Command Line
Interface (AWS CLI)
• This example shows how simple the
Example command:
command can be.
aws ec2 run-instances \
• This command assumes that the key pair and
--image-id ami-1a2b3c4d \
security group already exist.
--count 1 \
--instance-type c3.large \
--key-name MyKeyPair \
• More options could be specified. See the AWS
CLI Command Referencefor details. --security-groups MySecurityGroup \
--region us-east-1
You can also launch EC2 instances programmatically, either by using the AWS Command Line
Interface (AWS CLI) or one of the AWS software development kits (SDKs).
In the example AWS CLI command, you see a single command that specifies the minimal
information that is needed to launch an instance. The command includes the following
information:
• aws –Specifies an invocation of the aws command line utility.
• ec2 –Specifies an invocation of the ec2 service command.
• run-instances –Is the subcommand that is being invoked.
The rest of the command specifies several parameters, including:
• image-id –This parameter is followed by an AMI ID. All AMIs have a unique AMI ID.
• count –You can specify more than one.
• instance-type –You can specify the instance type to create (for example) a c3.large instance
• key-name –In the example, assume that MyKeyPair already exists.
• security-groups -In this example, assume that MySecurityGroup already exists.
• region -AMIs exist in an AWS Region, so you must specify the Region where the AWS CLI will
find the AMI and launch the EC2 instance.
The command should successfully create an EC2 instance if:
• The command is properly formed
• The resources that the command needs already exist
• You have sufficient permissions to run the command
• You have sufficient capacity in the AWS account
If the command is successful, the API responds to the command with the instance ID and other
relevant data for your application to use in subsequent API requests.
=== Page 35 ===
Amazon EC2 instance lifecycle
Only instances backed by Amazon EBS
Launch Start
pending
AMI
Reboot
Stop
rebooting running stopping stopped
Stop-
Hibernate
Terminat
shutting-
down
Terminate
terminated
Here, you see the lifecycle of an instance. The arrows show actionsthat you can take and the
boxes show the statethe instance will enter after that action. An instance can be in one of the
following states:
• Pending–When an instance is first launched from an AMI, or when you start a stopped
instance, it enters the pending state when the instance is booted and deployed to a host
computer. The instance type that you specified at launch determines the hardware of the host
computer for your instance.
• Running –When the instance is fully booted and ready, it exits the pending state and enters
the running state. You can connect over the internet to your running instance.
• Rebooting –AWS recommends you reboot an instance by using the Amazon EC2 console, AWS
CLI, or AWS SDKs instead of invoking a reboot from within the guest operating system (OS). A
rebooted instance stays on the same physical host, maintains the same public DNS name and
public IP address, and if it has instance store volumes, it retains the data on those volumes.
• Shutting down –This state is an intermediary state between running and terminated.
• Terminated–A terminated instance remains visible in the Amazon EC2 console for a while
before the virtual machine is deleted. However, you can’t connect to or recover a terminated
instance.
• Stopping–Instances that are backed by Amazon EBS can be stopped. They enter the stopping
state before they attain the fully stopped state.
• Stopped–A stopped instance will not incur the same cost as a running instance. Starting a
stopped instance puts it back into the pending state, which moves the instance to a new host
=== Page 36 ===
machine.
=== Page 37 ===
Consider using an Elastic IP address
• Rebootingan instance will not • If you require a persistent public IP
change any IP addresses or DNS address –
hostnames.
• Associate an Elastic IP address with the
instance.
• When an instance is stoppedand
then started again – • Elastic IP address characteristics –
• The publicIPv4 address and externalDNS • Can be associated with instances in the
hostname will change. Region as needed.
• The privateIPv4 address and internal DNS • Remains allocated to your account until
hostname do notchange. you choose to release it.
Elastic IP
Address
A public IP addressis an IPv4 address that is reachable from the internet. Each instance that
receives a public IP address is also given an external DNS hostname. For example, if the public IP
address assigned to the instance is 203.0.113.25, then the external DNS hostname might
beec2-203-0-113-25.compute-1.amazonaws.com.
If you specify that a public IP address should be assigned to your instance, it is assigned from the
AWS pool of public IPv4 addresses. The public IP address is not associated with your AWS
account. When a public IP address is disassociated from your instance, it is released back into the
public IPv4 address pool, and you will not be able to specify that you want to reuse it. AWS
releases your instance's public IP address when the instance is stopped or terminated. Your
stopped instance receives a new public IP address when it is restarted.
If you require a persistent public IP address, you might want to associate an Elastic IP address
with the instance. To associate an Elastic IP address, you must first allocate a new Elastic IP
address in the Region where the instance exists. After the Elastic IP address is allocated, you can
associate the Elastic IP address with an EC2 instance.
By default, all AWS accounts are limited to five (5) Elastic IP addresses per Region because public
(IPv4) internet addresses are a scarce public resource. However, this is a soft limit, and you can
request a limit increase (which might be approved).
=== Page 38 ===
EC2 instance metadata
• Instance metadata is data about your instance.
• While you are connected to the instance, you can view it –
• In a browser: http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/
• In a terminal window: curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/
• Example retrievable values –
• Public IP address, private IP address, public hostname, instance ID, security groups, Region,
Availability Zone.
• Any user data specified at instance launch can also be accessed at:
http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data/
• It can be used to configure or manage a running instance.
• For example, author a configuration script that reads the metadata and uses it to configure
applications or OS settings.
Instance metadata is data about your instance. You can view it while you are connected to the
instance. To access it in a browser, go to thefollowing URL:
http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/. The data can also be read
programmatically, such as from a terminal window thathas the cURL utility.In the terminal
window,run curl http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/to retrieve it.
The IP address 169.254.169.254is a link-local address and it is valid only from the instance.
Instance metadata provides much of the same information about the running instance that you
can find in the AWS Management Console. For example, you can discover the public IP address,
private IP address, public hostname, instance ID, security groups, Region, Availability Zone, and
more.
Any user data that is specified at instance launch can also be accessed at the following URL:
http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data.
EC2 instance metadata can be used to configure or manage a running instance. For example, you
can author a configuration script that accesses the metadata information and uses it to configure
applications or OS settings.
=== Page 39 ===
Amazon CloudWatch for monitoring
• Use Amazon CloudWatch to monitor EC2 instances
• Provides near-real-time metrics
Amazon CloudWatch Instance with CloudWatch
• Provides charts in the Amazon EC2 console
Monitoringtab that you can view
• Maintains 15 months of historical data
• Basic monitoring
• Default, no additional cost
• Metric data sent to CloudWatch every 5 minutes
• Detailed monitoring
• Fixed monthly rate for seven pre-selected metrics
• Metric data delivered every 1 minute
You can monitor your instances by using Amazon CloudWatch, which collects and processes raw
data from Amazon EC2 into readable, near-real-time metrics. These statistics are recorded for a
period of 15 months, so you can access historical information and gain a better perspective on
how your web application or service is performing.
By default, Amazon EC2provides basic monitoring,which sends metric data to CloudWatch in 5-
minute periods. To send metric data for your instance to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, you
can enabledetailed monitoringon the instance. For more information, seeEnable or Disable
Detailed Monitoring for Your Instances at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html.
The Amazon EC2 console displays a series of graphs based on the raw data from Amazon
CloudWatch. Depending on your needs, you might prefer to get data for your instances from
Amazon CloudWatch instead of through the graphs in the console. By default, Amazon
CloudWatch does not provide RAM metrics for EC2 instances, though that is an option that you
can configure if you want to CloudWatch to collect that data.
=== Page 40 ===
Section 2 key • AmazonEC2enables you to run Windows and Linux virtual
machinesin the cloud.
takeaways
• You launch EC2instances from an AMItemplate into a VPC
in your account.
• You can choose from many instancetypes. Each instance
type offers different combinations of CPU, RAM, storage,
and networking capabilities.
• You can configure security groupsto control access to
instances (specify allowed ports and source).
• Userdataenables you to specify a script to run the first
time that an instance launches.
• Only instancesthatarebackedbyAmazon EBS can be
stopped.
• You can use AmazonCloudWatch to capture and review
metrics on EC2 instances.
Some key takeaways from this section of the module include:
• Amazon EC2 enables you to run Windows and Linux virtual machines in the cloud.
• You launch EC2 instances from an AMI template into a VPC in your account.
• You can choose from many instance types. Each instance type offers different combinations of
CPU, RAM, storage, and networking capabilities.
• You can configure security groups to control access to instances (specify allowed ports and
source).
• User data enables you to specify a script to run the first time that an instance launches.
• Only instances that are backed by Amazon EBS can be stopped.
• You can use Amazon CloudWatch to capture and review metrics on EC2 instances.
=== Page 41 ===
Recorded
Amazon EC2
demonstration
Now, take a moment to watch the EC2Demo at https://aws-tc-largeobjects.s3-us-west-
2.amazonaws.com/ILT-TF-100-ACFNDS-20-EN/Module_6_EC2+v2.0.mp4. The recording runs just
over 3 minutes and reinforces some of the concepts that were discussed in this section of the
module.
The demonstration shows:
• How to use the AWS Management Console to launch an Amazon EC2 instance(with all the
default instance settings accepted).
• How to connect to the Windows instancebyusing a Remote Desktop client and the key pair
that was identified during instance launch to decrypt the Windows password for login.
• How to terminate the instance after it is no longer needed.
=== Page 42 ===
Lab 3:
Introduction to
Amazon EC2
Introducing Lab 3: Introduction to Amazon EC2. This lab provides hands-on practice with
launching, resizing, managing, and monitoring an Amazon EC2 instance.
=== Page 43 ===
Lab 3 scenario
In this lab, you will launch and configure your first virtual machine
that runs on Amazon EC2.
AWS Cloud
Region
Availability Zone
Lab VPC
Public subnet
Web server
instance
Introducing Lab 3: Introduction to Amazon EC2.
In this lab, you will launch and configure a virtual machine that runs on Amazon EC2.
=== Page 44 ===
Lab 3: Tasks
• Task 1 – Launch Your Amazon EC2 Instance
• Task 2 – Monitor Your Instance
• Task 3 – Update Your Security Group and Access the Web Server
• Task 4 – Resize Your Instance: Instance Type and EBS Volume
• Task 5 – Explore EC2 Limits
• Task 6 – Test Termination Protection
In this hands-on lab, you will:
• Launch Your Amazon EC2 Instance
• Monitor Your Instance
• Update Your Security Group and Access the Web Server
• Resize Your Instance: Instance Type and EBS Volume
• Explore EC2 Limits
• Test Termination Protection
=== Page 45 ===
Lab 3: Final product
By the end of the lab, you will have:
Amazon EC2
1. Launched an instance that is configured as
a web server
2. Viewed the instance system log VPC
AMI
3. Reconfigured a security group Security
group
4. Modified the instance type and root
volume size t2.micro t2.small
instance instance
Amazon Elastic
Block Store
(Amazon EBS)
8-GB root 10-GB root
volume volume
By the end of the lab, you will have:
1. Launched an instance that is configured as a web server
2. Viewed the instance system log
3. Reconfigured a security group
4. Modified the instance type and root volume size
=== Page 46 ===
~ 35 minutes
Begin Lab 3:
Introduction to Amazon
EC2
It is now time to start the lab.
=== Page 47 ===
Lab debrief:
Key takeaways
The instructor will lead a conversation about the key takeaways from the lab after you have
completed it.
=== Page 48 ===
Activity: Amazon
EC2
Photo by Pixabay from Pexels.
In this educator-led activity, you will discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using Amazon
EC2 versus using a managed service like Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS).
=== Page 49 ===
Activity: Gather information
Amazon EC2 Amazon RDS
AWS Cloud
Availability Zone 1 Availability Zone 2
MS SQL Server MS SQL Server secondary
primary DB instance DB instance
Always-on
mirroring
Volume Volume Volume Volume
replica replica
The objective of this activity is to demonstrate that you understand the differences between
building a deployment that uses Amazon EC2 and using a fully managed service, such as Amazon
RDS, to deploy your solution. At the end of this activity, you should be prepared to discuss the
advantages and disadvantages of deploying Microsoft SQL Server on Amazon EC2 versus
deploying it on Amazon RDS.
The educator will ask you to:
1. Watch an 8-minute video at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UYy-
UeQ29jo&did=ta_card&trk=ta_cardthat explains the benefits of deploying Microsoft SQL Server
on Amazon EC2 by using an AWS Quick Start. You are encouraged to take notes.
2. Read a blog post at https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/publicsector/the-scoop-on-moving-your-
microsoft-sql-server-to-aws/about the benefits of running Microsoft SQL Server on Amazon RDS.
You are again encouraged to take notes.
3. Participate in the class conversation about the questions posed on the next slide.
=== Page 50 ===
Activity: Check your understanding
1. Between Amazon EC2 or Amazon RDS, which provides a managed service? What does managed
service mean?
• ANSWER:Amazon RDS provides a managed service. Amazon RDS handles provisioning, installation and
patching, automated backups, restoring snapshots from points in time, high availability, and monitoring.
2. Name at least one advantage of deploying Microsoft SQL Server on Amazon EC2 instead of Amazon
RDS.
• ANSWER: Amazon EC2 offers complete control over every configuration, the OS, and the software stack.
3. What advantage does the Quick Start provide over a manual installation on Amazon EC2?
• ANSWER: The Quick Start is a reference architecture with proven best practices built into the design.
4. Which deployment option offers the best approach for all use cases?
• ANSWER: Neither. The correct deployment option depends on your specific needs.
5. Which approach costs more: using Amazon EC2 or using Amazon RDS?
• ANSWER: It depends. Managing the database deployment on Amazon EC2 requires more customer oversight
and time. If time is your priority, then Amazon RDS might be less expensive. If you have in-house expertise,
Amazon EC2 might be more cost-effective.
The educator will lead the class in a conversation as each question is revealed. Then, the
educator will display the written suggested responses and you can discuss these points further.
Regarding question 5, use these pages to find the pricing of RDS and EC2 instances with the listed
characteristics:
Amazon RDS for SQL Server: https://aws.amazon.com/rds/sqlserver/pricing/
• Instance –Standard (Single-AZ) instance
• Instance size –db.m5.large
• Region –US East (Ohio)
• Pricing –On-Demand Instance
Amazon EC2: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/
• Instance –Windows instance
• Instance size –m5.large
• Region –US East (Ohio)
• Pricing –On-Demand Instance
=== Page 51 ===
Note than an Amazon RDS instance has a higher hourly cost than a similarly sized EC2 instance. As
you consider cost, do not forget to include the cost of labor. For example, keep in mind that with a
standard Single-AZ Amazon RDS deployment—which is the basis of the example price reference—
automated backups are provided. With Amazon RDS, if a DB instance component failed and a user-
initiated restore operation is required, you would have a restorable backup that you could use. If you
run the database on Amazon EC2, you could configure an equally robust backup procedure for
Microsoft SQL Server. However, it would take time, knowledge, and technical skill to build the
solution. You would also need to pre-configure the solution before you encounter the situation
where you need it. For these reasons, when you consider the needs of your deployments holistically,
you might find that using Amazon RDS is less expensive than using Amazon EC2. However, if you
have skilled database administrators on staff—and you also have very specific deployment
requirements that make it preferable for you to have total control over all aspects of the
deployment—you could use Amazon EC2. In this case, you might find Amazon EC2 to be the more
cost-effective solution.
=== Page 52 ===
Section 3: Amazon EC2 cost
optimization
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 3: Amazon EC2 cost optimization.
=== Page 53 ===
Amazon EC2 pricing models
On-Demand Instances Reserved Instances Spot Instances
• Pay by the hour • Full, partial, or no upfront • Instances run as long as they are
payment for instance you reserve. available and your bid is above the
• No long-term commitments. Spot Instance price.
• Discount on hourly charge for that
• Eligible for the AWS Free Tier. • They can be interrupted by AWS
instance.
with a 2-minute notification.
• 1-year or 3-year term.
Dedicated Hosts • Interruption options include
Scheduled Reserved terminated, stopped or hibernated.
• A physical server with EC2 instance Instances • Prices can be significantly less
capacity fully dedicated to your use. expensive compared to On-Demand
• Purchase a capacity reservation Instances
Dedicated Instances that is always available on a • Good choice when you have
recurring schedule you specify. flexibility in when your applications
can run.
• Instances that run in a VPC on • 1-year term.
hardware that is dedicated to a
single customer.
Per second billing
available for On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, and
Spot Instances that run Amazon Linux or Ubuntu.
Amazon offers different pricing models to choose from when you want to run EC2 instances.
• Per second billing is only available for On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, and Spot
Instances that run Amazon Linux or Ubuntu.
• On-DemandInstances are eligible for the AWS Free Tier (https://aws.amazon.com/free/). They
have the lowest upfront cost and the most flexibility. There are no upfront commitments or
long-term contracts. It is a good choice for applications with short-term, spiky, or
unpredictable workloads.
• Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with instance capacity that is dedicated to your use. They
enable you to use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses, such as for
Microsoft Windows or Microsoft SQL Server.
• Dedicated Instances are instances that run in a virtual private cloud (VPC) on hardware that’s
dedicated to a single customer. They are physically isolated at the host hardware level from
instances that belong to other AWS accounts.
• Reserved Instance enable you to reserve computing capacity for 1-year or 3-year term with
lower hourly running costs. The discounted usage price is fixed for as long as you own the
Reserved Instance. If you expect consistent, heavy use, they can provide substantial savings
compared to On-Demand Instances.
• Scheduled Reserved Instances enable you to purchase capacity reservations that recur on a
daily, weekly, or monthly basis, with a specified duration, for a 1-year term. You pay for the
time that the instances are scheduled, even if you do not use them.
• Spot Instances enable you to bid on unused EC2 instances, which can lower your costs. The
hourly price for a Spot Instance fluctuates depending on supply and demand. Your Spot
Instance runs whenever your bid exceeds the current market price.
=== Page 54 ===
Amazon EC2 pricing models: Benefits
On-Demand Instances Spot Instances Reserved Instances Dedicated Hosts
• Low cost and • Large scale, dynamic • Predictabilityensures •Save money on licensing
flexibility workload compute capacity is costs
available when •Help meet compliance
needed and regulatory
requirements
Each Amazon EC2 pricing model provides a different set of benefits.
On-Demand Instances offer the most flexibility, with no long-term contract and low rates.
Spot Instances provide large scale at a significantly discounted price.
Reserved Instances are a good choice if you have predictable or steady-state compute needs (for
example, an instance that you know you want to keep running most or all of the time for months
or years).
Dedicated Hosts are a good choice when you have licensing restrictions for the software you
want to run on Amazon EC2, or when you have specific compliance or regulatory requirements
that preclude you from using the other deployment options.
=== Page 55 ===
Amazon EC2 pricing models: Use cases
Spiky Workloads Time-Insensitive Steady-State Workloads Highly Sensitive
Workloads Workloads
On-Demand Instances Spot Instances Reserved Instances Dedicated Hosts
•Short-term, spiky, or •Applications with flexible •Steady state or predictable •Bring your own license
unpredictable workloads start and end times usage workloads (BYOL)
•Application development or •Applications only feasible •Applications that require •Compliance and regulatory
testing at very low compute prices reserved capacity, including restrictions
•Users with urgent disaster recovery
•Usage and licensing
computing needs for large •Users able to make upfront
tracking
amounts of additional payments to reduce total
capacity computing costs even •Control instance placement
further
Here is a review of some use cases for the various pricing options.
On-Demand Instance pricing works well for spiky workloads or if you only need to test or run an
application for a short time (for example, during application development or testing). Sometimes,
your workloads are unpredictable, and On-Demand Instances are a good choice for these cases.
Spot Instances are a good choice if your applications can tolerate interruption with a 2-minute
warning notification. By default, instances are terminated, but you can configure them to stop or
hibernate instead. Common use cases include fault-tolerant applications such as web servers, API
backends, and big data processing. Workloads that constantly save data to persistent storage
(such as Amazon S3) are also good candidates.
Reserved Instances are a good choice when you have long-term workloads with predictable
usage patterns, such as servers that you know you will want to run in a consistent way over many
months.
Dedicated Hosts are a good choice when you have existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM
software licenses, or when you must address specific corporate compliance and regulatory
requirements.
=== Page 56 ===
The four pillars of cost optimization
Cost Optimization
Increase Optimal Optimize
Right size
elasticity pricing storage
model choices
To optimize costs, you must consider four consistent, powerful drivers:
• Right-size –Choose the right balance of instance types. Notice when servers can be either
sized down or turned off, and still meet your performance requirements.
• Increase elasticity –Design your deployments to reduce the amount of server capacity that is
idle by implementing deployments that are elastic, such as deployments that use automatic
scaling to handle peak loads.
• Optimal pricing model –Recognize the available pricing options. Analyze your usage patterns
so that you can run EC2 instances with the right mix of pricing options.
• Optimize storage choices –Analyze the storage requirements of your deployments. Reduce
unused storage overhead when possible, and choose less expensive storage options if they can
still meet your requirements for storage performance.
=== Page 57 ===
Pillar 1: Right size
✓Provision instances to match the need
Pillars:
• CPU, memory, storage, and network throughput
1. Right size • Select appropriate instance types for your use
2. Increase elasticity
3. Optimal pricing model ✓Use Amazon CloudWatch metrics
4. Optimize storage choices
• How idle are instances? When?
• Downsize instances
✓Best practice: Right size, then reserve
First, consider right-sizing. AWS offers approximately 60 instance types and sizes. The wide choice
of options enables customers to select the instance that best fits their workload. It can be
difficult to know where to start and what instance choice will prove to be the best, from both a
technical perspective and a cost perspective. Right-sizing is the process of reviewing deployed
resources and looking for opportunities to downsize when possible.
To right-size:
• Selectthe cheapest instance available that still meets your performance requirements.
• ReviewCPU, RAM, storage, and network utilization to identify instances that could be
downsized. You might want to provision a variety of instance types and sizes in a test
environment, and then test your application on those different test deployments to identify
which instances offer the best performance-to-cost ratio. For right-sizing, use techniques such
as load testing to your advantage.
• UseAmazon CloudWatch metrics and set up custom metrics. A metric represents a time-
ordered set of values that are published to CloudWatch (for example, the CPU usage of a
particular EC2 instance). Data points can come from any application or business activity for
which you collect data.
=== Page 58 ===
Pillar 2: Increase elasticity
✓Stop or hibernate Amazon EBS-backed
instances that are not actively in use
Pillars:
• Example: non-production development or test
1. Right-Size instances
2. Increase Elasticity
✓Use automatic scaling to match needs based
3. Optimal pricing model
on usage
4. Optimize storage choices
• Automated and time-based elasticity
One form of elasticityis to create, start, or use EC2 instances when they are needed, but then to
turn them off when they are not in use. Elasticity is one of the central tenets of the cloud, but
customers often go through a learning process to operationalize elasticity to drive cost savings.
The easiest way for large customers to embrace elasticity is to look for resources that look like
good candidates for stopping or hibernating, such as non-production environments, development
workloads, or test workloads. For example, if you run development or test workloads in a single
time zone, you can easily turn off those instances outside of business hours and thus reduce
runtime costs by perhaps 65 percent. The concept is similar to why there is a light switch next to
the door, and why most offices encourage employees to turn off the lights on their way out of the
office each night.
For production workloads, configuring more precise and granular automatic scaling policies can
help you take advantage of horizontal scaling to meet peak capacity needs and to not pay for
peak capacity all the time.
As a rule of thumb, you should target 20–30 percent of your Amazon EC2 instances to run as On-
Demand Instances or Spot Instances, and you should also actively look for ways to maximize
elasticity.
=== Page 59 ===
Pillar 3: Optimal pricing model
✓Leverage the right pricing model for your use case
Pillars:
• Consider your usage patterns
1. Right-Size
✓Optimize and combine purchase types
2. Increase Elasticity
3. Optimal pricing model
4. Optimize storage choices ✓Examples:
• Use On-Demand Instance and SpotInstances for variable
workloads
• Use Reserved Instancesfor predictable workloads
✓Consider serverless solutions (AWS Lambda)
AWS provides a number of pricing models for Amazon EC2 to help customers save money. The
models available were discussed in detail earlier in this module. Customers can combine multiple
purchase types to optimize pricing based on their current and forecast capacity needs.
Customers are also encouraged to consider their application architecture. For example, does the
functionality provided by your application need to run on an EC2 virtual machine? Perhaps by
making use of the AWS Lambda service instead, you could significantly decrease your costs.
AWS Lambda is discussed later in this module.
=== Page 60 ===
Pillar 4: Optimize storage choices
✓Reduce costs while maintaining storage performance and
availability
Pillars:
✓Resize EBS volumes
1. Right-Size
2. Increase Elasticity
✓Change EBS volume types
3. Optimal pricing model
4. Optimize storage choices
✓Can you meet performance requirements with less expensive storage?
✓Example: Amazon EBS Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)storage typically
costs half as much as the default General Purpose SSD (gp2)storage option.
✓Delete EBS snapshots that are no longer needed
✓Identify the most appropriate destination for specific types of
data
✓Does the application need the instance to reside on Amazon EBS?
✓Amazon S3 storage options with lifecycle policies can reduce costs
Customers can also reduce storage costs. When you launch EC2 instances, different instance
types offer different storage options. It is a best practice to try to reduce costs while also
maintaining storage performance and availability.
One way you can accomplish this is by resizing EBS volumes. For example, if you originally
provisioned a 500-GB volume for an EC2 instance that will only need a maximum of 20 GB of
storage space, you can reduce the size of the volume and save on costs.
There are also a variety of EBS volume types. Choose the least expensive type that still meets
your performance requirements. For example, Amazon EBS Throughput Optimized HDD (st1)
storage typically costs half as much as the default General Purpose SSD (gp2) storage option. If an
st1 drive will meet the needs of your workload, take advantage of the cost savings.
Customers often use EBS snapshots to create data backups. However, some customers forget to
delete snapshots that are no longer needed. Delete these unneeded snapshots to save on costs.
Finally, try to identify the most appropriate destination for specific types of data. Does your
application need the data it uses to reside on Amazon EBS? Would the application run equally as
well if it used Amazon S3 for storage instead? Configuring data lifecycle policies can also reduce
costs. For example, you might automate the migration of older infrequently accessed data to
cheaper storage locations, such as Amazon Simple Storage Service Glacier.
=== Page 61 ===
Measure, monitor, and improve
• Cost optimization is an ongoing process.
• Recommendations –
• Define and enforce cost allocation tagging.
• Define metrics, set targets, and review regularly.
• Encourage teams to architect for cost.
• Assign the responsibility of optimization to an individual or
to a team.
If it is done correctly, cost optimization is not a one-time process that a customer completes.
Instead, by routinely measuring and analyzing your systems, you can continually improve and
adjust your costs.
Tagging helps provide information about what resources are being used by whom and for what
purpose.You can activate cost allocation tags in the Billing and Cost Management console, and
AWS can generate a cost allocation report with usage and costs grouped by your active tags.
Apply tags that represent business categories (such as cost centers, application names, or
owners) to organize your costs across multiple services.
Encourage teams to architect for cost. AWS Cost Explorer is a free tool that you can use to view
graphs of your costs. You can use Cost Explorer to see patterns in how much you spend on AWS
resources over time, identify areas that need further inquiry, and see trends that you can use to
understand your costs.
Use AWS services such as AWS Trusted Advisor, which provides real-time guidance to help you
provision resources that follow AWS best practices.
Cost-optimization efforts are typically more successful when the responsibility for cost
optimization is assigned to an individual or to a team.
=== Page 62 ===
Section 3 key • Amazon EC2 pricing models include On-Demand Instances,
Reserved Instances, Spot Instances, Dedicated Instances,
takeaways and Dedicated Hosts.
• Spot Instances can be interrupted with a 2-minute
notification. However, they can offer significant cost savings
over On-Demand Instances.
• The four pillars of cost optimization are:
• Right size
• Increase elasticity
• Optimal pricing model
• Optimize storage choices
Some keytakeaways from this section of the module are:
• Amazon EC2 pricing modelsinclude On-Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, Spot
Instances, Dedicated Instances, and Dedicated Hosts. Per second billing is available for On-
Demand Instances, Reserved Instances, and Spot Instances that use only Amazon Linux and
Ubuntu.
• Spot Instances can be interrupted with a 2-minute notification. However, they can offer
significant cost savings over On-Demand Instances.
• The four pillars of cost optimization are–
• Right size
• Increase elasticity
• Optimal pricing model
• Optimize storage choices
=== Page 63 ===
Section 4: Container services
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 4: Container services.
=== Page 64 ===
Container basics
• Containers are a method of
operating system virtualization.
Your Container
• Benefits – Your application
• Repeatable.
Dependencies
• Self-contained environments.
• Software runs the same in different
Configurations
environments.
• Developer's laptop, test, production. Hooks into OS
• Faster to launch and stop or terminate
than virtual machines
Containersare a method of operating system virtualization that enables you to run an
application and its dependencies in resource-isolated processes. By using containers, you can
easily package an application's code, configurations, and dependencies into easy-to-use building
blocks that deliver environmental consistency, operational efficiency, developer productivity, and
version control.
Containers are smaller than virtual machines, and do not contain an entire operating system.
Instead, containers share a virtualized operating system and run as resource-isolated processes,
which ensure quick, reliable, and consistent deployments. Containers hold everything that the
software needs to run, such as libraries, system tools, code, and the runtime.
Containers deliver environmental consistency because the application’s code, configurations,
and dependencies are packaged into a single object.
In terms of space, container images are usually an order of magnitude smaller than virtual
machines. Spinning up a container happens in hundreds of milliseconds. Thus, by using
containers, you can use a fast, portable, and infrastructure-agnostic environments.
Containers can help ensure that applications deploy quickly, reliably, and consistently, regardless
of deployment environment. Containers also give you more granular control over resources,
which gives your infrastructure improved efficiency.
=== Page 65 ===
What is Docker?
• Docker is a software platform
that enables you to build, test,
and deploy applications quickly. Container
• You run containers on Docker.
Containers have everything the
• Containers are created from a
software needs to run:
template called an image.
• A container has everything a
System
Libraries Code Runtime
software application needs to tools
run.
Dockeris a software platform that packages software (such as applications) into containers.
Docker is installed on each server that will host containers, and it provides simple commands that
you can use to build, start, or stop containers.
By using Docker, you can quickly deploy and scale applications into any environment.
Docker is best used as a solution when you want to:
• Standardize environments
• Reduce conflicts between language stacks and versions
• Use containers as a service
• Run microservices using standardized code deployments
• Require portability for data processing
=== Page 66 ===
Containers versus virtual machines
Three virtual machineson three EC2 instances
Example
VM 1 VM 2 VM 3
Container
Three containerson one EC2 instance
App 1 App 2 App 3
Container Container Container
Bins/Libs Bins/Libs Bins/Libs
instance 1 instance 2 instance 3
App 1 App 2 App 3
Docker
EC2 EC2 EC2
engine
Bins/Libs Bins/Libs Bins/Libs instance instance instance
guest OS guest OS guest OS
EC2 instance guest OS
Hypervisor
Part of
Host operating system AWS Global
Infrastructure
Physical server
Many people who are first introduced to the concept of a container think that containers are
exactly like virtual machines. However, the differences are in the details. One significant
difference is that virtual machines run directly on a hypervisor, but containers can run on any
Linux OS if they have the appropriate kernel feature support and the Docker daemon is present.
This makes containers very portable. Your laptop, your VM, your EC2 instance, and your bare
metal server are all potential hosts where you can run a container.
The right of the diagram has a virtual machine (VM)-based deployment. Each of the three EC2
instances runs directly on the hypervisor that is provided by the AWS Global Infrastructure. Each
EC2 instance runs a virtual machine. In this VM-based deployment, each of the three apps runs
on its own VM, which provides process isolation.
The left of the diagram has a container-based deployment. There is only one EC2 instance that
runs a virtual machine. The Docker engine is installed on the Linux guest OS of the EC2 instance,
and there are three containers. In this container-based deployment, each app runs in its own
container (which provides process isolation), but all the containers run on a single EC2 instance.
The processes that run in the containers communicate directly to the kernel in the Linux guest OS
and are largely unaware of their container silo. The Docker engine is present to manage how the
containers run on the Linux guest OS, and it also provides essential management functions
throughout the container lifecycle.
In an actual container-based deployment, a large EC2 instance could run hundreds of containers.
=== Page 67 ===
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS)
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) –
• A highly scalable, fast, container management service
• Key benefits –
Amazon Elastic
• Orchestrates the running of Docker containers Container Service
• Maintains and scales the fleet of nodes that run your containers
• Removes the complexity of standing up the infrastructure
• Integrated with features that are familiar to Amazon EC2 service users –
• Elastic Load Balancing
• Amazon EC2 security groups
• Amazon EBS volumes
• IAM roles
Given what you now know about containers, you might thinkthatyou could launch one or more
Amazon EC2 instances, install Docker on each instance, and manage and run the Docker
containers on those Amazon EC2 instances yourself. While that is an option, AWS provides a
service called Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) that simplifies container
management.
Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) is a highly scalable, high-performance container
management service that supports Docker containers.Amazon ECS enables you to easily run
applications on a managed cluster of Amazon EC2 instances.
Essential Amazon ECS features include the ability to:
• Launchup to tens of thousands of Docker containers in seconds
• Monitorcontainerdeployment
• Managethe state of the cluster that runs the containers
• Schedule containers byusing a built-in scheduler or a third-party scheduler (for example,
Apache Mesosor Blox)
Amazon ECS clusters can also use Spot Instances and Reserved Instances.
=== Page 68 ===
Amazon ECS orchestrates containers
EC2 instance
Requests to run containers
x3 x2
Container A
EC2 instance
Container B
Amazon Elastic Container
Service (Amazon ECS)
ECS cluster
To prepare your application to run on Amazon ECS, you create a task definitionwhich is a text file
that describes one or more containers, up to a maximum of ten, that form your application. It
can be thought of as a blueprint for your application. Task definitions specify parameters for your
application, for example which containers to use, which ports should be opened for your
application, and what data volumes should be used with the containers in the task.
Ataskis the instantiation of a task definition within a cluster. You can specify the number of tasks
that will run on your cluster. The Amazon ECS task scheduleris responsible for placing tasks
within your cluster. A task will run anywhere from one to ten containers, depending on the task
definition you defined.
When Amazon ECS runs the containers that make up your task, it places them on an ECScluster.
The cluster (when you choose the EC2 launch type) consists of a group of EC2 instances each of
which is running an Amazon ECS container agent.
Amazon ECS provides multiple scheduling strategies that will place containers across your clusters
based on your resource needs (for example, CPU or RAM) and availability requirements.
=== Page 69 ===
Amazon ECS cluster options
• Keyquestion:DoyouwanttomanagetheAmazonECSclusterthatrunsthecontainers?
• If yes, create an Amazon ECS cluster backed by Amazon EC2 (provides more granular control
over infrastructure)
• If no, create an Amazon ECS cluster backed by AWS Fargate (easier to maintain, focus on your
applications)
Containers
Amazon ECS Amazon ECS cluster
Container Container Container
cluster backed by instance 1 instance 2 instance 3 backed by Fargate
Amazon EC2
App 1 App 2 App 3
You manage
Bins/Libs Bins/Libs Bins/Libs
You manage
Docker engines (one per OS in the cluster)
AWSmanages
VM guest operating systems in the Amazon ECS cluster
When you create an Amazon ECS cluster, you have three options:
• A Networking Only cluster (powered by AWS Fargate)
• An EC2 Linux + Networking cluster
• An EC2 Windows + Networking cluster
If you choose one of the two EC2 launch type options, you will then be prompted to choose
whether the cluster EC2 instances will run as On-Demand Instances or Spot Instances. In addition,
you will need to specify many details about the EC2 instances that will make up your cluster—the
same details that you must specify when you launch a stand lone EC2 instance. In this way, the
EC2 launch type provides more granular control over the infrastructure that runs your container
applications because you manage the EC2 instances that make up the cluster.
Amazon ECS keeps track of all the CPU, memory, and other resources in your cluster. Amazon ECS
also finds the best server for your container on based on your specified resource requirements.
If you choose the networking-only Fargate launch type, then the cluster that will run your
containers will be managed by AWS. With this option, you only need to package your application
in containers, specify the CPU and memory requirements, define networking and IAM policies,
and launch the application. You do not need to provision, configure, or scale the cluster. It
removes the need to choose server types, decide when to scale your clusters, or optimize cluster
packing. The Fargate option enables you to focus on designing and building your applications.
=== Page 70 ===
What is Kubernetes?
• Kubernetes is open source software for container orchestration.
• Deploy and manage containerized applications at scale.
• The same toolset can be used on premises and in the cloud.
• Complements Docker.
• Docker enables you to run multiple containers on a single OS host.
• Kubernetes orchestrates multiple Docker hosts (nodes).
• Automates –
• Container provisioning.
• Networking.
• Load distribution.
• Scaling.
Kubernetesis opensource software for container orchestration. Kubernetes can work with many
containerization technologies, including Docker. Because it isapopular open source project, a
large community of developers and companies build extensions, integrations, and plugins that
keep the software relevant, and new and in-demand features are added frequently.
Kubernetes enables you to deploy and manage containerized applicationsat scale.With
Kubernetes, you canrun any type of containerized application by using the same toolset in both
on-premises data centers and the cloud. Kubernetes manages a clusterof compute instances
(called nodes).It runs containers on the cluster, which are based on where compute resources
are available and the resource requirements of each container. Containersare run in logical
groupings called pods.You can run and scale one or many containers together as a pod. Each pod
is given an IP address and a single Domain Name System (DNS) name, which Kubernetes uses to
connect your services with each other and external traffic.
A key advantage of Kubernetes is that you can use it to run your containerized applications
anywhere without needing to change your operational tooling. For example, applications can be
moved from local on-premises development machines to production deployments in the cloud by
using the same operational tooling.
=== Page 71 ===
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)
• Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS)
• Enables you to run Kubernetes on AWS
• Certified Kubernetes conformant (supports easy migration)
• Supports Linux and Windows containers Amazon Elastic
Kubernetes Service
• Compatible with Kubernetes community tools and supports
popular Kubernetes add-ons
• Use Amazon EKS to –
• Manage clusters of Amazon EC2 compute instances
• Run containers that are orchestrated by Kubernetes on those
instances
You might think that you could launch one or more Amazon EC2 instances, install Docker on each
instance, install Kubernetes on the cluster, and manage and run Kubernetes yourself. While that is
an option, AWS provides a service called Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) that
simplifies the management of Kubernetes clusters.
Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) is a managed Kubernetes service that makes it
easy for you to run Kubernetes on AWS without needing to install, operate, and maintain your
own Kubernetes control plane. It is certified Kubernetes conformant, so existing applications that
run on upstream Kubernetes are compatible with Amazon EKS.
Amazon EKS automatically manages the availability and scalability of the cluster nodes that are
responsible for starting and stopping containers, scheduling containers on virtual machines,
storing cluster data, and other tasks. It automatically detects and replaces unhealthy control
plane nodes for each cluster. You can take advantage of the performance, scale, reliability, and
availability of the AWS Cloud, which includes AWS networking and security services like
Application Load Balancers for load distribution, IAM for role-based access control, and VPC for
pod networking.
You may be wondering why Amazon offers both Amazon ECS and Amazon EKS, since they are
both capable of orchestrating Docker containers. The reason that both services exist is to provide
customers with flexible options. You can decide which option best matches your needs.
=== Page 72 ===
Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR)
Amazon ECR is a fully managed Docker container registry
that makes it easy for developers to store, manage, and
deploy Docker container images.
Amazon ECS integration
Docker support
Team collaboration
Amazon Elastic
Container Registry Access control
Third-party integrations
Image Registry
Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR)is a fully managed Docker container registry
that makes it easy for developers to store, manage, and deploy Docker container images. It is
integrated with Amazon ECS, so you can store, run, and manage container images for
applications that run on Amazon ECS. Specify the Amazon ECR repository in your task definition,
and Amazon ECS will retrieve the appropriate images for your applications.
Amazon ECR supports Docker Registry HTTP API version 2, which enables you to interact with
Amazon ECR by using Docker CLI commands or your preferred Docker tools. Thus, you can
maintain your existing development workflow and access Amazon ECR from any Docker
environment—whether it is in the cloud, on premises, or on your local machine.
You can transfer your container images to and from Amazon ECS via HTTPS. Your images are also
automatically encrypted at rest using Amazon S3 server-side encryption.
It is also possible to use Amazon ECR images with Amazon EKS. See the Using Amazon ECR
Images with Amazon EKSdocumentation at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/ECR_on_EKS.htmlfor details.
=== Page 73 ===
Section 4 key • Containers can hold everything that an application needs to
run.
takeaways
• Dockeris a software platform that packages software into
containers.
• A single application can span multiple containers.
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (AmazonECS)
orchestrates the running of Docker containers.
• Kubernetes is open source software for container
orchestration.
• Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (AmazonEKS) enables
you to run Kubernetes on AWS
• Amazon Elastic Container Registry (AmazonECR) enables
you to store, manage, and deploy your Docker containers.
Some keytakeaways from this section include:
• Containers can hold everything that an application needs to run.
• Docker is a software platform that packages software into containers.
• A single application can span multiple containers.
• Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) orchestrates the running of Docker containers.
• Kubernetes is open source software for container orchestration.
• Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (Amazon EKS) enables you to run Kubernetes on AWS
• Amazon Elastic Container Registry (Amazon ECR) enables you to store, manage, and deploy
your Docker containers.
=== Page 74 ===
Section 5: Introduction to AWS
Lambda
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 5: Introduction to AWS Lambda.
=== Page 75 ===
AWS Lambda: Run code without servers
AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service.
The code you run
is a Lambda function
Upload your code
AWS HTTP
services endpoints Your code Pay onlyfor the
Mobile apps
runs only when it is compute time that
Run your code on a schedule
triggered you use
or in response to events
As you saw in the earlier sections of this module, AWS offers many compute options. For
example, Amazon EC2provides virtual machines.As another example, Amazon ECS and Amazon
EKSare container-based compute services.
However, there is another approach to compute that does not require you to provisionor
manage servers. This third approach is often referred to as serverlesscomputing.
AWS Lambda is an event-driven, serverless compute service. Lambda enables you to run code
without provisioning or managing servers.
You create aLambda function, which is the AWS resource that contains the code that you
upload. You then set the Lambda function to be triggered, either on a scheduledbasisor in
response to an event. Your code only runs when it is triggered.
You pay only for the compute time you consume—youare notcharged when your code is not
running.
=== Page 76 ===
Benefits of Lambda
It supports multiple programming languages
Completely automated administration
Built-in fault tolerance
AWS
It supports the orchestration of multiple functions
Lambda
Pay-per-use pricing
With Lambda, there are no new languages, tools, or frameworks to learn. Lambda supports
multiple programming languages, including Java, Go, PowerShell, Node.js, C#, Python, and Ruby.
Your code can use any library, either native or third-party.
Lambda completely automates the administration. It manages all the infrastructure to run your
code on highly available, fault-tolerant infrastructure, which enables you to focus on building
differentiated backend services. Lambda seamlessly deploys your code; does all the
administration, maintenance, and security patches; and provides built-in logging and monitoring
throughAmazon CloudWatch.
Lambda provides built-in fault tolerance. It maintains compute capacity across multiple
Availability Zones in each Region to help protect your code against individual machine failures or
data center failures. There are no maintenance windows or scheduled downtimes.
You can orchestrate multiple Lambda functions for complex or long-running tasks by building
workflows withAWS Step Functions. Use Step Functions to define workflows. These workflows
trigger a collection of Lambda functions by using sequential, parallel, branching, and error-
handling steps. With Step Functions and Lambda, you can build stateful, long-running processes
for applications and backends.
With Lambda, you pay only for the requests that are served and the compute time that is
required to run your code. Billing is metered in increments of 100 milliseconds, which make it
cost-effective and easy to scale automatically from a few requests per day to thousands of
requests per second.
=== Page 77 ===
AWS Lambda event sources
Event sources Configure other AWS services as event sourcesto
invoke your function as shown here.
Amazon S3 Alternatively, invoke a Lambda function from the
Lambda console, AWS SDK, or AWS CLI.
Amazon DynamoDB
Amazon Simple Notification
Service (Amazon SNS)
Lambda Running of your code
Amazon Simple Queue function (only when triggered)
Service (Amazon SQS)
AWS Lambda
Amazon API Gateway
Logging,
monitoring, and
Application Load Balancer
metrics
Amazon
Many more… CloudWatch
An event source is an AWS service or a developer-created application that produces events that
trigger an AWS Lambda function to run.
Some services publish events to Lambda by invoking the Lambda function directly. These services
that invoke Lambda functions asynchronouslyinclude, but are not limited to, Amazon S3,
Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), and Amazon CloudWatch Events.
Lambda can also poll resources in other services that do not publish events to Lambda. For
example, Lambda can pull records from an Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) queue
and run a Lambda function for each fetched message. Lambda can similarly read events from
Amazon DynamoDB.
Some services, such as Elastic Load Balancing (Application Load Balancer) and Amazon API
Gateway can invoke your Lambda function directly.
You can invoke Lambda functions directly with the Lambda console, the Lambda API, the AWS
software development kit (SDK), the AWS CLI, and AWS toolkits. The direct invocation approach
can be useful, such as when you are developing a mobile app and want the app to call Lambda
functions. See the Using Lambda with Other Services documentation at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-services.htmlfor further details about
all supported services.
AWS Lambda automatically monitors Lambda functions by using Amazon CloudWatch. To help
you troubleshoot failures in a function, Lambda logs all requests that are handled by your
function. It also automatically stores logs that are generated by your code through Amazon
CloudWatch Logs.
=== Page 78 ===
AWS Lambda function configuration
Lambda function configuration
Function
code
Running of your code (only
AWS when it is triggered)
Lambda
Dependencies function AWS Lambda
(code libraries, etc.)
Logging, monitoring,
and metrics
Amazon
Execution role CloudWatch
Remember that a Lambda function is the custom code that you write to process events, and that
Lambda runs the Lambda function on your behalf.
When you use the AWS Management Console to create a Lambda function, you first give the
function a name. Then, you specify:
• The runtime environment the function will use (for example, a version of Python or Node.js)
• An execution role (to grant IAM permission to the function so that it can interact with other
AWS services as necessary)
Next, after you click Create Function, you configure the function. Configurations include:
• Add a trigger(specify one of the available event sources from the previous slide)
• Add your function code (use the provided code editor or upload a file that contains your code)
• Specify the memoryin MB to allocate to your function (128 MB to 10,240 MB)
• Optionally specify environment variables, description, timeout, the specific virtual private
cloud (VPC) to run the function in, tags you would like to use, and other settings. For more
information, see Configuring functions in the AWS Lambda console
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-console.htmlin the AWS
Documentation.
All of the above settings end up in a Lambda deployment package which is a ZIP archive that
contains your function code and dependencies.When you use the Lambda console to author
your function, the console manages the package for you. However, you need to create a
deployment package if you use the Lambda API to manage functions.
=== Page 79 ===
Schedule-based Lambda function example:
Start and stop EC2 instances
Stop instances example
Stop
IAM role
Time-based
1 CloudWatch 2 Lambda function 3 EC2 instances
event triggered stopped
Start instances example
Start
IAM role
Time-based
4 5 Lambda function 6 EC2 instances
CloudWatch
triggered started
event
Consider an example use case for a schedule-based Lambda function. Say that you are in a
situation where you want to reduce your Amazon EC2 usage. You decide that you want to stop
instances at a predefined time (for example, at night when no one is accessing them) and then
you want to start the instances back up in the morning (before the workday starts).
In this situation, you could configure AWS Lambda and Amazon CloudWatch Events to help you
accomplish these actions automatically.
Here is what happens at each step in the example:
1. A CloudWatch event is scheduled to run a Lambda function to stop your EC2 instances at (for
example) 22:00 GMT.
2. The Lambda function is triggered and runs with the IAM role that gives the function
permission to stop the EC2 instances.
3. The EC2 instances enter the stopped state.
4. Later, at (for example) 05:00 AM GMT, a CloudWatch event is scheduled to run a Lambda
function to start the EC2 instances.
5. The Lambda function is triggered and runs with the IAM role that gives it permission to start
the EC2 instances.
6. The EC2 instances enter the running state.
=== Page 80 ===
Event-based Lambda function example:
Create thumbnail images
AWS Cloud
2 3
User
Lambda
Source 4
bucket
Execution
role
Access
policy
Target
bucket Lambda
function
Now, consider an example use case for an event-based Lambda function. Suppose that you want
to create a thumbnail for each image (.jpg or .png object) that is uploaded to an S3 bucket.
To build a solution, you can create a Lambda function that Amazon S3 invokes when objects are
uploaded. Then, the Lambda function reads the image object from the source bucket and creates
a thumbnail image in a target bucket. Here’s how it works:
1. A user uploads an object to the source bucket in Amazon S3 (object-created event).
2. Amazon S3 detects the object-created event.
3. Amazon S3 publishes theobject-created event to Lambda by invoking the Lambda function
and passing event data.
4. Lambda runs the Lambda function by assuming the execution role that you specified when
you created the Lambda function.
5. Based the event data that the Lambda function receives, it knows the source bucket name
and object key name. The Lambda function reads the object and creates a thumbnail by using
graphics libraries, and saves the thumbnail to the target bucket.
=== Page 81 ===
AWS Lambda quotas
Soft limits per Region:
• Concurrent executions = 1,000
• Function and layer storage = 75 GB
Hard limits for individual functions:
• Maximum function memory allocation = 10,240 MB
• Function timeout = 15 minutes
• Deployment package size = 250 MB unzipped, including layers
• Container image code package size = 10 GB
Additional limits also exist. Details are in the AWS Lambda quotas documentation at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-limits.html.
AWS Lambda does have some quotas that you should know about when you create and deploy
Lambda functions.
AWS Lambda limits the amount of compute and storage resources that you can use to run and
store functions. For example, as of this writing, the maximum memory allocation for a single
Lambda function is 10,240 MB. It also has limits of 1,000 concurrent executions in a Region.
Lambda functions can be configured to run up to 15 minutes per run. You can set the timeout to
any value between 1 second and 15 minutes. If you are troubleshooting a Lambda deployment,
keep these limits in mind.
There are limits on the deployment package size of a function (250 MB). A layeris a ZIP archive
that contains libraries, a custom runtime, or other dependencies. With layers, you can use
libraries in your function without needing to include them in your deploymentpackage. Using
layers can help avoid reaching the size limit for deployment package. Layers are also a good way
to share code and data between Lambda functions.
For larger workloads that rely on sizable dependencies, such as machine learning or data
intensive workloads, you can deploy your Lambda function to a container image up to 10 GB in
size.
Limits are either soft or hard. Soft limits on an account can potentially be relaxed by submitting a
support ticket and providing justification for the request. Hard limits cannot be increased.
For the details on current AWS Lambda quotas, refer to the AWS Lambda quotas documentation
at https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/gettingstarted-limits.html.
=== Page 82 ===
Section 5 key • Serverless computingenables you to build and run
applications and services without provisioning or managing
takeaways servers.
• AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that provides
built-in fault tolerance and automatic scaling.
• An eventsourceis an AWS service or developer-created
application that triggers a Lambda function to run.
• The maximum memory allocation for a single Lambda
function is 10,240 MB.
• The maximum run time for a Lambda function is 15
minutes.
Some key takeaways from this section of the module include:
• Serverless computing enables you to build and run applications and services without
provisioning or managing servers.
• AWS Lambda is a serverless compute service that provides built-in fault tolerance and
automatic scaling.
• An event source is an AWS service or developer-created application that triggers a Lambda
function to run.
• The maximum memory allocation for a single Lambda function is 10,240 MB.
• The maximum run time for a Lambda function is 15 minutes.
=== Page 83 ===
Activity: Create an To complete this activity:
AWS Lambda
Stopinator
• Go to the hands-on lab environment and launch
Function the AWS Lambda activity.
• Follow the instructions that are provided in the
hands-on lab environment.
In this hands-on activity, you will create a basic Lambda function that stops an EC2 instance.
=== Page 84 ===
Activity debrief:
key takeaways
The instructor will lead a conversation about the key takeaways from the activity after students
have completed it.
=== Page 85 ===
Section 6: Introduction to AWS
Elastic Beanstalk
Module 6: Compute
Introducing Section 6: Introduction to AWS Elastic Beanstalk.
=== Page 86 ===
AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• An easy way to get web applications up and running
• A managed service that automatically handles –
• Infrastructure provisioning and configuration
• Deployment
• Load balancing
• Automatic scaling
AWS Elastic
• Health monitoring
Beanstalk
• Analysis and debugging
• Logging
• No additional charge for Elastic Beanstalk
• Pay only for the underlying resources that are used
AWS Elastic Beanstalk is another AWS compute service option. It is a platform as a service (or
PaaS) that facilitates the quick deployment, scaling, and management of your web applications
and services.
You remain in control. The entire platform is already built, and you only need to upload your
code. Choose your instance type, your database, set and adjust automatic scaling, update your
application, access the server log files, and enable HTTPS on the load balancer.
You upload your code and Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the deployment, from capacity
provisioning and load balancing to automatic scaling and monitoring application health. At the
same time, you retain full control over the AWS resources that power your application, and you
can access the underlying resources at any time.
There is no additional charge for AWS Elastic Beanstalk. You pay for the AWS resources (for
example, EC2 instances or S3 buckets) you create to store and run your application. You only pay
for what you use, as you use it. There are no minimum fees and no upfront commitments.
=== Page 87 ===
AWS Elastic Beanstalk deployments
• It supports web applications
written for common platforms
• Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python,
Ruby, Go, and Docker
You Your code
manage
HTTP server
• You upload your code
Application server
• Elastic Beanstalk automatically AWS Language interpreter
manages
handles the deployment
Operating system
• Deploys on servers such as Apache, Host
NGINX, Passenger, Puma, and
Microsoft Internet Information
Services (IIS)
AWS Elastic Beanstalk enables you to deploy your code through the AWS Management Console,
the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI), Visual Studio, and Eclipse. It provides all the
application services that you need for your application. The only thing you must create is your
code. Elastic Beanstalk is designed to make deploying your application a quick and easy process.
Elastic Beanstalk supports a broad range of platforms. Supported platforms include Docker, Go,
Java, .NET, Node.js, PHP, Python, and Ruby.
AWS Elastic Beanstalk deploys your code on Apache Tomcat for Java applications; Apache HTTP
Server for PHP and Python applications; NGINX or Apache HTTP Server for Node.js applications;
Passengeror Pumafor Ruby applications; and Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) for
.NET applications, Java SE, Docker, and Go.
=== Page 88 ===
Benefits of Elastic Beanstalk
Fast and simple Developer Difficult to Complete resource
to start using productivity outgrow control
Elastic Beanstalk is fast and simple to start using. Use the AWS Management Console, a Git
repository, or an integrated development environment (IDE) such as Eclipse or Visual Studio to
upload your application. Elastic Beanstalk automatically handles the deployment details of
capacity provisioning, load balancing, automatic scaling, and monitoring application health.
You can improve your developer productivity by focusing on writing code instead of managing
and configuring servers, databases, load balancers, firewalls, and networks. AWS updates the
underlying platform that runs your application with patches and updates.
Elastic Beanstalk is difficult to outgrow. With Elastic Beanstalk, your application can handle peaks
in workload or traffic while minimizing your costs. It automatically scales your application up or
down based on your application's specific needs by using easily adjustable automatic scaling
settings. You can use CPU utilization metrics to trigger automatic scaling actions.
You have the freedom to select the AWS resources—such as Amazon EC2 instance type—that
are optimal for your application. Elastic Beanstalk enables you to retain full control over the AWS
resources that power your application. If you decide that you want to take over some (or all) of
the elements of your infrastructure, you can do so seamlessly by using the management
capabilities that are provided by Elastic Beanstalk.
=== Page 89 ===
Activity: AWS To complete this activity:
Elastic Beanstalk
• Go to the hands-on lab environment and launch
the AWS Elastic Beanstalk activity.
• Follow the instructions that are provided in the
hands-on lab environment.
In this hands-on activity, you will gain an understanding of why you might want to use Elastic
Beanstalk to deploy a web application on AWS.
=== Page 90 ===
Activity debrief:
Key takeaways
The instructor might choose to lead a conversation about the key takeaways from the activity
after you have completed it.
=== Page 91 ===
Section 6 key • AWS Elastic Beanstalk enhances developer
productivity.
takeaways
• Simplifies the process of deploying your application.
• Reduces management complexity.
• Elastic Beanstalk supports Java, .NET, PHP,
Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker
• There is no charge for Elastic Beanstalk. Pay only
for the AWS resources that you use.
Some key takeaways from this section of the module include:
• AWS Elastic Beanstalk enhances developer productivity.
• Simplifies the process of deploying your application.
• Reduces management complexity.
• Elastic Beanstalk supports Java, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Python, Ruby, Go, and Docker.
• There is no charge for Elastic Beanstalk. Pay only for the AWS resources you use.
=== Page 92 ===
Module wrap-up
Module 6: Compute
It’s now time to review the module and wrap up with a knowledge check and discussion of a
practice certification exam question.
=== Page 93 ===
Module summary
In summary, in this module, you learned how to:
• Provide an overview of different AWS compute services in the cloud
• Demonstrate why to use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Identify the functionality in the Amazon EC2 console
• Perform basic functions in Amazon EC2 to build a virtual computing
environment
• Identify Amazon EC2 cost optimization elements
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Lambda
• Identify how to run containerized applications in a cluster of managed servers
In summary, in this module, you learned how to:
• Provide an overview of different AWS compute services in the cloud
• Demonstrate why to use Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
• Identify the functionality in the Amazon EC2 console
• Perform basic functions in Amazon EC2 to build a virtual computing environment
• Identify Amazon EC2 cost optimization elements
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Elastic Beanstalk
• Demonstrate when to use AWS Lambda
• Identify how to run containerized applications in a cluster of managed servers
=== Page 94 ===
Complete the knowledge check
It is now time to complete the knowledge check for this module.
=== Page 95 ===
Sample exam question
Which AWS service helps developers quickly deploy resources which can make use of different
programming languages, such as .NET and Java?
Choice Response
A AWS CloudFormation
B AWS SQS
C AWS Elastic Beanstalk
D Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
Look at the answer choices and rule them out based on the keywords.
=== Page 96 ===
Sample exam question answer
Which AWS service helps developers quickly deploy resources which can make use of different
programming languages, such as .NET and Java?
The correct answer is C.
The keywords in the question are developers quickly deploy resources and different
programming languages.
The following are the keywords to recognize: developers quickly deploy resources and different
programming languages.
The correct answer is C. AWS Elastic Beanstalk
Incorrect answers:
Answer A: AWS CloudFormation
Answer B: AWS SQS
Answer D: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
=== Page 97 ===
Additional resources
• Amazon EC2 Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/
• Amazon EC2 Pricing: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/
• Amazon ECS Workshop: https://ecsworkshop.com/
• Running Containers on AWS: https://containersonaws.com/
• Amazon EKSWorkshop: https://www.eksworkshop.com/
• AWS Lambda Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/
• AWS Elastic Beanstalk Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elastic-
beanstalk/
• Cost Optimization Playbook:
https://d1.awsstatic.com/pricing/AWS_CO_Playbook_Final.pdf
Compute services on AWS is a large topic, and this module only provided an introduction to the
subject. The following resources provide more detail:
• Amazon EC2Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ec2/
• Amazon EC2Pricing: https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/
• Amazon ECS Workshop: https://ecsworkshop.com/
• Running Containers on AWS: https://containersonaws.com/
• Amazon EKSWorkshop: https://www.eksworkshop.com/
• AWS Lambda Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/
• AWS Elastic Beanstalk Documentation: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elastic-beanstalk/
• Cost Optimization Playbook: https://d1.awsstatic.com/pricing/AWS_CO_Playbook_Final.pdf
=== Page 98 ===
Thank you
Thank you for completing this module.