# Clean Text Extracted from: 9.pdf
# Processed on: 2025-11-17 14:36:50
# Purpose: LLM-ready content for question generation
================================================================================

=== Page 1 ===
Module 09 Student Guide
Version 2.0.13
=== Page 2 ===
This work may not be reproduced or redistributed, in whole or in part,
without prior written permission from Amazon Web Services, Inc.
=== Page 3 ===
Contents
Module 9: Cloud Architecture 4
=== Page 4 ===
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
=== Page 5 ===
Module overview
Topics Activities
• AWS Well-Architected Framework
• AWS Well-Architected Framework
Design Principles
• Reliability and high availability • Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor
Recommendations
• AWS Trusted Advisor
Knowledge check
This module will address the following topics:
• AWS Well-Architected Framework
• Reliability and high availability
• AWS Trusted Advisor
The module also includes two activities. In one activity, you will be challenged to review an
architecture and evaluate it against the AWS Well-Architected Framework design principles. In
the second activity, you will gain experience interpreting AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations.
Finally, you will be asked to complete a knowledge check that will test your understanding of key
concepts covered in this module.
=== Page 6 ===
Module objectives
After completing this module, you should be able to:
• Describe the AWS Well-Architected Framework, including the six
pillars
• Identify the design principles of the AWS Well-Architected
Framework
• Explain the importance of reliability and high availability
• Identify how AWS Trusted Advisor helps customers
• Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations
After completing this module, you should be able to:
• Describe the AWS Well-Architected Framework, including thesix pillars
• Identify the design principlesof the AWS Well-Architected Framework
• Explain the importance of reliability and high availability
• Identify how AWS Trusted Advisor helps customers
• Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations
=== Page 7 ===
Section 1: AWS Well-
Architected Framework
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Section 1: AWS Well-Architected Framework
=== Page 8 ===
Architecture: designing and building
Architect
Structure design Customer Completed structure
(Decision maker)
Building crew
(Delivery team)
Architecture is the art and science of designing and building large structures. Large systems
require architects to manage their size and complexity.
Cloud architects:
• Engage with decision makers to identify the business goal and the capabilities that need
improvement.
• Ensure alignment between technology deliverables of a solution and the business goals.
• Work with delivery teams that are implementing the solution to ensure that the technology
features are appropriate.
Having well-architected systems greatly increases the likelihood of business success.
=== Page 9 ===
What is the AWS Well-Architected Framework?
• A guide for designing infrastructures that are:
✓Secure
✓High-performing
✓Resilient
✓Efficient
• A consistent approach to evaluating and implementing cloud
architectures
• A way to provide best practices that were developed through lessons
learned by reviewing customer architectures
The AWS Well-Architected Framework is a guide that is designed to help you build the most
secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient infrastructure possible for your cloud applications
and workloads. It provides a set of foundational questions and best practices that can help you
evaluate and implement your cloud architectures. AWS developed the Well-Architected
Framework after reviewing thousands of customer architectures on AWS.
=== Page 10 ===
Pillars of the AWS Well-Architected Framework
The AWS Well-Architected Framework is organized into six pillars:operational excellence,
security, reliability, performance efficiency, cost optimization, and sustainability. The first five
pillars have been part of the framework since the framework's introduction in 2015. The
sustainability pillar was added as the sixth pillar in 2021 to help organizations learn how to
minimize the environmental impacts of running cloud workloads.
The remainder of this module focuses on the first five pillars (operational excellence, security,
reliability, performance efficiency, cost optimization)and leads you through a review of an
example architecture against each pillar's design principles.
For more about the sustainability pillar, refer to the sustainability pillar section within the Well-
Architected Framework documentationsee
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/sustainability-pillar/sustainability-
pillar.html.
For accessibility:The pillars include operational excellence, security, reliability, performance
efficiency, cost optimization, and sustainability. End of accessibility description.
=== Page 11 ===
Pillar organization
Best practice area Identity and Access Management
Question text SEC 1: How do you manage credentials and authentication?
Credential and authentication mechanisms include passwords, tokens, and keys
Question context
that grant access directly or indirectly in your workload. Protect credentials with
appropriate mechanisms to help reduce the risk of accidental or malicious use.
Best practices:
Best practices
• Define requirements for identity and access management
• Secure AWS account root user
• Enforce use of multi-factor authentication
• Automate enforcement of access controls
• Integrate with centralized federation provider
• Enforce password requirements
• Rotate credentials regularly
• Audit credentials periodically
Each pillar includes a set of design principles and best practice areas. Each best practice area
aligns to questions a reviewer should ask when designing an architecture. The questions for each
pillar are part of the Well-Architected Framework Appendix.
=== Page 12 ===
Introduction to
the AWS Well-
Architected
Framework
Design
Principles
Activity
Operational Performance Cost
Security Reliability
excellence efficiency optimization
As you go through the rest of this section, you will be prompted to review the architecture of a
fictitious company using the AWS Well-Architected Framework design principles for each of the
following five pillars: operational excellence, security, reliability, performance efficiency, and cost
optimization.
=== Page 13 ===
AnyCompany background
• AnyCompany Corporation: “Cityscapes you can stand over”
• Founded in 2008 by John Doe
• Sells 3D-printed cityscapes
• About to apply for investment
• Has asked you to perform a review of their platform as part of their
due diligence
• Cloud native
Here’s the background of the company whose architecture you will be reviewing:
AnyCompanyCorporation was founded in 2008 by JohnDoe. It sells high-quality three-
dimensional (3D) printed cityscapes of neighborhoods that enable you to see individual buildings
and trees. The cityscapes are printed in color, with brickwork, roofs, gardens, and even cars in
their correct coloration.
The company is about to apply for private investment to fund their growth until their initial public
offering (IPO). John and the board have asked you to perform an independent review of their
technology platform to make sure that it will pass due diligence.
John was interested in using cloud computing from the start. In 2008, he created an account with
AWS and spun up his first Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instance. Over the years,
the architecture of the AnyCompanyplatform has evolved. John now has a team of five
technologists who write and operate all the technology in the organization. John still writes core
code for extracting structure from motion, but he has given the AWS account root user
credentials to the rest of his team to manage.
=== Page 14 ===
AnyCompany background (continued)
AnyCompanyCorporation has three main departments:
• Fly and Snap –image acquisition, preprocessing, and storage
• Show and Sell –promoting, selling, and working with customers
• Make and Ship –manufacturing of products and delivery
The high-level design for the AnyCompanyplatform looks like the organizational structure of the
company.
For accessibility:High-level design of mappahoodplatform: Show and Sell (promoting, selling,
working with customers) sends orders and requests imagery. Make and Ship (manufacturing and
delivery) tracks orders from Show and Sell and requests imagery from Fly and Snap (acquisition,
preprocessing, and storage. End of accessibility description.
=== Page 15 ===
AnyCompany architecture: Fly and Snap
Fly and Snap
Multiple devices (currently, camera and video cameras) are mounted on lightweight aircraft
that capture imagery of major cities, including famous locations, on a scheduled basis. Each
device generates imagery assets that are time-stamped with a clock that is synchronized with
the aircraft’s clock. The imagery assets are streamed to the onboard Capture machinethat has
an external storage array. The Capture machine is also connected to the aircraft’s flight system
and continuously captures navigation data—suchas global positioning system (GPS) data,
compass readings, and elevation.
When it returnsto base, the storage array is disconnected and taken into an ingest bay. Here,
the storage array is connected to an Ingest machine.The Ingest machine creates a
compressed archive of the storage array and uses file transfer protocol (FTP) to send it to an
EC2 instance Preprocessor machine. After the storage array has been processed, the archive is
written to tape(for backup). The storage array is then cleared and ready for the next flight.
Tapes are held offsite by a third-party backup provider.
The Preprocessor machine periodically processes new datasets that have been uploaded to it.
It extracts all the imagery assets and stores them in an Amazon Simple Storage Service
(Amazon S3)bucket. It notifies the Imagery service about the files and provides it with the
flight information. The Imagery serviceuses the flight information to compute a 3D
orientation and location for every moment of the flight, which it correlates to the imagery file
timestamps. This information is stored in a relational database management system (RDBMS)
that is based in Amazon EC2, with links to the imagery assets in Amazon S3.
For accessibility:Fly and snap architecture. A capture machine and an ingest machine sends
imagery to a detachable storage array. The ingest machine also backs up to tape storage. End
© 2022, Amazoonf Waecbc eSsersviibceisli, tIync d. oer sitcs raifpfiltiaitoens. .All rights reserved. 15
=== Page 16 ===
AnyCompany architecture: Show and Sell
Show and Sell
When customers visit the AnyCompanywebsite,they can see images and videos of the physical
product. These images are in a variety of formats (forexample, alarge-scale, walk-around map).
The websiteuses Elastic Load Balancingwith Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS), and an
Auto Scaling groupof EC2 instances that run a content management system. Static website
assets are stored in an S3 bucket.
Customers can select a location on a map and see a video preview of their cityscape. Customers
can also choose the physical size of the map, choose the color scheme (available in white,
monochrome, or full color), and have the option to place light-emitting diode (LED) holes in the
map to build illuminated maps. The Mapping servicecorrelates the map location input from the
website with the Imagery service to confirm if imagery is available for that location.
If the customers are happy with the preview, they can order their cityscape. Customers pay by
credit card. Credit card orders are processed by a certified third-party payment card industry
(PCI)-compliant provider. AnyCompanydoes not process or store any credit card information.
After the websitereceives payment confirmation, it instructs the Order serviceto push the order
to production. Orders (including customer details) are recorded in the Show and Sell database,
which is anRDBMSthat is based in Amazon EC2.
To initiate a video preview or full print of an order, the Orders serviceplaces a message on the
Production queue, which allows the Render serviceto indicate when a preview video is
available. The Order servicealso reads from the Order status queueand records status changes
in the Show and Sell database. Customers can track their order through manufacturing and see
when it has been dispatched, which is handled by a thirdparty through the broker Dispatch
© 2022, Amaszeornv Wiceeb. Services, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved. 16
=== Page 17 ===
AnyCompany architecture: Make and Ship
Make and Ship
AnyCompanyhas proprietary technology that enables it to generate 3D models from a
combination of photographs and video (extracting structure from motion).
The Render serviceis a fleet of g2.2xlarge instances. The Render servicetakes orders from the
Production queueand generates the 3D models that are stored in an S3 bucket. The Render
servicealso uses the 3D models to create flyby videos so that customers can preview their
orders on the AnyCompanywebsite. These videos are stored in a separate S3 bucket. Once a
year, the team deletes old previews. However, models are kept in case they are needed for
future projects.
After a customer places an order, a message is placed in the Print queuewith a link to the 3D
model. At each stage of the Make and Ship process, order status updates are posted to the
Order status queue. This queue is consumed by the AnyCompanywebsite, which shows the
order history.
The Make and Ship team has four 3D printers that print high-resolution and detailed color-
control models. An on-premises Print conductormachine takes orders from the Print queue
and sends them to the next available printer. The Print conductorsends order updates to the
Order status queue. The Print conductorsends a final update when the order has been
completed, passed quality assurance, and is ready for dispatch.
=== Page 18 ===
Activity overview
• Break into small groups.
• You will learn about each of the pillars. At the end of each pillar, there is a set of
questions from the AWS Well-Architected Framework for you to work through
with your group. Use these Framework questions to guide your review of the
AnyCompany architecture.
• For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer the following questions
about the AnyCompany architecture:
• What is the CURRENT STATE (what is AnyCompany doing now)?
• What is the FUTURE STATE (what do you think AnyCompany should be doing?)
• Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompany should make to its
architecture for each set of Well-Architected Framework questions.
• Hint: There are no right or wrong answers.
For this activity, you will break into small groups. As you learn about each pillar, your group will
work through a set of questions from the AWS Well-Architected Framework. You will use these
Well-Architected Framework questions to guide your review of the AnyCompanyarchitecture.
For each Well-Architected Framework question, your group will answer the following questions
about the AnyCompanyarchitecture:
• What is the CURRENT STATE (what is AnyCompanydoing now)?
• What is the FUTURE STATE (what do you think AnyCompanyshould be doing)?
Your team must then agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make based on the
answers to these three questions.
Note that there are no right or wrong answers. The AWS Well-ArchitectedFramework questions
are there to prompt discussion.
For prescriptive guidance on implementation, see the details for each pillar on the Well-
Architected Framework websiteat
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/framework/welcome.html. All of the
questions for each pillar are part of the Well-Architected Framework Appendix.
=== Page 19 ===
Operational Excellence pillar
Operational Excellence pillar
=== Page 20 ===
Operational Excellence pillar – deliver business value
• Focus
Operational
• Run and monitor systems to deliver business value, and to
Excellence
continually improve supporting processes and procedures.
pillar
• Key topics
• Automating changes
• Responding to events
Deliver
business • Defining standards to manage daily operations
value
The Operational Excellence pillar focuses on the ability to run and monitor systems to deliver
business value,and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures. Key topics
include: automating changes, responding to events, and defining standards to manage daily
operations.
=== Page 21 ===
Operational excellence design principles
• Perform operations as code
Operational
• Make frequent, small, reversible changes
Excellence
pillar • Refine operations procedures frequently
• Anticipate failure
• Learn from all operational events and failures
Deliver
business
value
There are five design principles for operational excellence in the cloud:
• Perform operations as code–Define your entire workload (that is, applications and
infrastructure) as code and update it with code. Implement operations procedures as code
and configure them to automatically trigger in response to events. By performing operations
as code, you limit human error and enable consistent responses to events.
• Make frequent, small, reversible changes–Design workloads to enable components to be
updated regularly. Make changes in small increments that can be reversed if they fail (without
affecting customers when possible).
• Refine operations procedures frequently–Look for opportunities to improve operations
procedures. Evolve your procedures appropriately as your workloads evolve. Set up regular
game days to review all procedures, validate their effectiveness, and ensure that teams are
familiar with them.
• Anticipate failure–Identify potential sources of failure so that they can be removed or
mitigated. Test failure scenarios and validate your understanding of their impact. Test your
response procedures to ensure that they are effective and that teams know how to run them.
Set up regular game days to test workloads and team responses to simulated events.
• Learn from all operational failures–Drive improvement through lessons learned from all
operational events and failures. Share what is learned across teams and through the entire
organization.
=== Page 22 ===
Operational excellence questions
Organization Operate
• How do you determine what your priorities are? • How do you understand the health of your
• How do you structure your organization to workload?
support your business outcomes?
• How do you understand the health of your
• How does your organizational culture support operations?
your business outcomes?
• How do you manage workload and operations
events?
Prepare
• How do you design your workload so that you Evolve
can understand its state?
• How do you evolve operations?
• How do you reduce defects, ease remediation,
and improve flow into production?
• How do you mitigate deployment risks?
• How do you know that you are ready to support
a workload?
The foundational questions for operational excellence fall under three best practice areas:
organization, prepare, operate, and evolve.
Operations teams must understand business and customer needs so they can effectively and
efficiently support business outcomes. Operations teams create and use procedures to respond
to operational events and validate the effectiveness of procedures to support business needs.
Operations teams collect metrics that are used to measure the achievement of desired business
outcomes. As business context, business priorities, and customer needs, change over time, it’s
important to design operations that evolve in response to change and to incorporate lessons
learned through their performance.
=== Page 23 ===
Operational excellence activity breakout
Here is the entire AnyCompanyarchitecture for you to consult as you complete the activity. Refer
to the notes for the AnyCompanybackground and architecture slides to help you with this
exercise. You might also want to refer to the Appendix in the AWS Well-Architected Framework at
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf.
1. Review the following three operational excellence questions from the AWS Well-Architected
Framework:
• OPS 4: How do you design your workload so that you can understand its state?
• OPS 6: How do you mitigate deployment risk?
• OPS 7: How do you know that you are ready to support a workload?
2. For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer what is the current state of the
AnyCompanyarchitecture and what is the final state.
3. Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make.
=== Page 24 ===
Security pillar
Security pillar
=== Page 25 ===
Security pillar – protect and monitor systems
• Focus
Security
• Protect information, systems, and assets while delivering
pillar
business value through risk assessments and mitigation
strategies.
• Key topics
• Protecting confidentiality and integrity of data
• Identifying and managing who can do what
Protect and
monitor • Protecting systems
systems
• Establishing controls to detect security events
The Security pillarfocuses on the ability to protect information, systems, and assets while
delivering business value through risk assessments and mitigation strategies. Key topics include:
protecting confidentiality and integrity of data, identifying and managing who can do what (or
privilege management), protecting systems, and establishing controls to detect security events.
=== Page 26 ===
Security design principles
• Implement a strong identity foundation
Security
• Enable traceability
pillar
• Apply security at all layers
• Automate security best practices
• Protect data in transit and at rest
• Keep people away from data
Protect and • Prepare for security events
monitor
systems
There are seven design principlesthat can improve security:
• Implement a strong identity foundation–Implement the principle of least privilege and
enforce separation of duties with appropriate authorization for each interaction with your
AWS resources. Centralize privilege management and reduce or even eliminate reliance on
long-term credentials.
• Enable traceability–Monitor, alert, and audit actions and changes to your environment in real
time. Integrate logs and metrics with systems to automatically respond and take action.
• Apply security at all layers–Apply defenseindepth and apply security controls to all layers of
your architecture (forexample,edge network, virtual private cloud, subnet, and load
balancer; and every instance, operating system, and application).
• Automate security best practices–Automate security mechanisms to improve your ability to
securely scale more rapidly and cost effectively. Create secure architectures and implement
controls that are defined and managed as code in version-controlled templates.
• Protect data in transit and at rest–Classify your data into sensitivity levels and use
mechanisms such as encryption, tokenization, and access control where appropriate.
• Keep people away from data–To reduce the risk of loss or modification of sensitive data due
to human error, create mechanisms and tools to reduce or eliminate the need for direct
access or manual processing of data.
• Prepare for security events–Have an incident management process that aligns with
organizational requirements. Run incident response simulations and use tools with
automation to increase your speed of detection, investigation, and recovery.
=== Page 27 ===
Security questions
Security Infrastructure protection
• How do you securely operate your workload? • How do you protect your network resources?
• How do you protect your compute resources?
Identity and access management
• How do you manage identities for people and Data protection
machines?
• How do you classify your data?
• How do you manage permissions for people
• How do you protect your data at rest?
and machines?
• How do you protect your data in transit?
Detection
Incident response
• How do you detect and investigate security
• How do you anticipate, respond to, and
events?
recover from incidents?
The foundational questions for security fall under six best practice areas: security, identity and
access management, detection, infrastructure protection, data protection, and incident response.
Before you architect any system, you must put security practices in place. You must be able to
control who can do what. In addition, you must be able to identify security incidents, protect
your systems and services, and maintain the confidentiality and integrity of data through data
protection. You should have a well-defined and practiced process for responding to security
incidents. These tools and techniques are important because they support objectives such as
preventing financial loss or complying with regulatory obligations.
=== Page 28 ===
Security activity breakout
Here is the entire AnyCompanyarchitecture for you to consult as you complete the activity. Refer
to the notes for the AnyCompanybackground and architecture slides to help you with this
exercise. You might also want to refer to the Appendix in the AWS Well-Architected Framework at
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf.
1. Review the following three security questions from the AWS Well-Architected Framework:
• SEC 1: How do you securely operate your workload?
• SEC 4: How do you detect and investigate security events?
• SEC 6: How do you protect your compute resources?
2. For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer what is the current state of the
AnyCompanyarchitecture and what is the final state.
3. Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make.
=== Page 29 ===
Reliability pillar
Reliability pillar
=== Page 30 ===
Reliability pillar – recover from failure and mitigate disruption
• Focus
Reliability
• Ensure a workload performs its intended function correctly
pillar
and consistently when it’s expected to.
• Key topics
• Designing distributed systems
Recover • Recovery planning
from failure
and mitigate • Handling change
disruption.
TheReliability pillar focuses on ensuring a workload performs its intended function correctly and
consistently when it’s expected to. A resilient workload quickly recovers from failures to meet
business and customer demand. Key topics include: designing distributed systems, recovery
planning, and handling change.
=== Page 31 ===
Reliability design principles
• Automatically recover from failure
Reliability
• Test recovery procedures
pillar
• Scale horizontally to increase aggregate workload
availability
• Stop guessing capacity
• Manage change in automation
Recover
from failure
and mitigate
disruption.
There are five design principles that can increase reliability:
• Automatically recover from failure–Monitor systems for key performance indicators and
configure your systems to trigger an automated recovery when a threshold is breached. This
practice enables automatic notification and failure-tracking, and for automated recovery
processes that work around or repair the failure.
• Test recovery procedures–Test how your systems fail and validate your recovery procedures.
Use automation to simulate different failures or to recreate scenarios that led to failures
before. This practice can expose failure pathways that you can test and rectify before a real
failure scenario.
• Scale horizontally to increase aggregate workload availability–Replace one large resource
with multiple, smaller resources and distribute requests across these smaller resources to
reduce the impact of a single point of failure on the overall system.
• Stop guessing capacity–Monitor demand and system usage, and automate the addition or
removal of resources to maintain the optimal level for satisfying demand.
• Manage change in automation–Use automation to make changes to infrastructure and
manage changes in automation.
=== Page 32 ===
Reliability questions
Foundations Change management
• How do you manage service quotas and • How do you monitor workload resources?
constraints? • How do you design your workload to adapt
to changes in demand?
• How do you plan your network topology?
• How do you implement change?
Workload architecture
Failure management
• How do you design your workload service
• How do you back up data?
architecture?
• How do you use fault isolation to protect
• How do you design interactions in a
your workload?
distributed system to prevent failure?
• How do you design your workload to
• How do you design interactions in a withstand component failures?
distributed system to mitigate or withstand
• How do you test reliability?
failures?
• How do you plan for disaster recovery?
The foundational questions for reliability fall under four best practice areas: foundations,
workload architecture, change management, and failure management.
To achieve reliability, a system must have both a well-planned foundation and monitoring in
place. It must have mechanisms for handling changes in demand or requirements. The system
should be designed to detect failure and automatically heal itself.
=== Page 33 ===
Activity breakout
Here is the entire AnyCompanyarchitecture for you to consult as you complete the activity. Refer
to the notes for the AnyCompanybackground and architecture slides to help you with this
exercise. You might also want to refer to the Appendix in the AWS Well-Architected Framework at
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf.
1. Review the following three reliability questions from the AWS Well-Architected Framework:
• REL 2: How do you plan your network topology?
• REL 7: How do you design your system to adapt to changes in demand?
• REL 9: How do you back up data?
2. For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer what is the current state of the
AnyCompanyarchitecture and what is the final state.
3. Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make.
=== Page 34 ===
Performance Efficiency pillar
Performance Efficiency pillar
=== Page 35 ===
Performance Efficiency pillar – use resources sparingly
• Focus
Performance
• Use IT and computing resources efficiently to meet system
Efficiency requirements and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes
pillar and technologies evolve.
• Key topics
• Selecting the right resource types and sizes based on workload
requirements
• Monitoring performance
Use
resources • Making informed decisions to maintain efficiency as business
sparingly. needs evolve
The Performance Efficiency pillar focuses on the ability to use IT and computing resources
efficiently to meet system requirements, and to maintain that efficiency as demand changes or
technologies evolve. Key topics include: selecting the right resource types and sizes based on
workload requirements, monitoring performance, and making informed decisions to maintain
efficiency as business needs evolve.
=== Page 36 ===
Performance efficiency design principles
• Democratize advanced technologies
Performance
• Go global in minutes
Efficiency
pillar • Use serverless architectures
• Experiment more often
• Consider mechanical sympathy
Use
resources
sparingly.
There are five design principles that can improve performance efficiency:
• Democratize advanced technologies–Consume technologies as a service. For example,
technologies such as NoSQL databases, media transcoding, and machine learning require
expertise that is not evenly dispersed across the technical community. In the cloud, these
technologies become services that teams can consume. Consuming technologies enables
teams to focus on product development instead of resource provisioning and management.
• Go global in minutes–Deploy systems in multiple AWS Regions to provide lower latency and a
better customer experience at minimal cost.
• Use serverless architectures–Serverless architectures remove the operational burden of
running and maintaining servers to carry out traditional compute activities. Serverless
architectures can also lower transactional costs because managed services operate at cloud
scale.
• Experiment more often–Perform comparative testing of different types of instances, storage,
or configurations.
• Consider mechanical sympathy–Use the technology approach that aligns best to what you
are trying to achieve. For example, consider your data access patterns when you select
approaches fordatabases or storage.
=== Page 37 ===
Performance efficiency questions
Selection Review
• How do you select the best • How do you evolve your workload to
performing architecture? take advantage of new releases?
• How do you select your compute
solution? Monitoring
• How do you select your storage • How do you monitor your resources
solution? to ensure they are performing?
• How do you select your database
solution? Tradeoffs
• How do you configure your
• How do you use tradeoffs to
networking solution?
improve performance?
The foundational questions for performance efficiency fall under four best practice areas:
selection, review, monitoring, and tradeoffs.
Use data to design and build a high-performance architecture. Gather data on all aspects of the
architecture, from the high-level design to the selection and configuration of resource types.
Review your choices periodically to ensure that you are taking advantage of new AWS services.
Perform monitoring so that you are aware of any deviance from expected performance and can
take prompt action to remediatethem. Finally, use tradeoffs in your architecture to improve
performance, such as using compression, using caching, or relaxing consistency requirements.
=== Page 38 ===
Activity breakout 1
Activity breakout
Here is the entire AnyCompanyarchitecture for you to consult as you complete the activity. Refer
to the notes for the AnyCompanybackground and architecture slides to help you with this
exercise. You might also want to refer to the Appendix in the AWS Well-Architected Framework at
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf
1. Review the following three performance efficiency questions from the AWS Well-Architected
Framework:
• PERF 1: How do you select the bestperforming architecture?
• PERF 2: How do you select your compute solution?
• PERF 4: How do you select your database solution?
2. For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer what is the current state of the
AnyCompanyarchitecture and what is the final state.
3. Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make.
=== Page 39 ===
Cost Optimization pillar
Cost Optimization pillar
=== Page 40 ===
Cost Optimization pillar – eliminate unneeded expense
• Focus
Cost
• Avoid unnecessary costs.
Optimization
pillar
• Key topics
• Understanding and controlling where money is being spent
• Selecting the most appropriate and right number of
resource types
Eliminate
unneeded • Analyzing spend over time
expense.
• Scaling to meeting business needs without overspending
The Cost Optimization pillar focuses on the ability to avoid unnecessary costs. Key topics include:
understanding and controlling where money is being spent, selecting the most appropriate and
right number of resource types, analyzing spend over time, and scaling to meeting business
needs without overspending.
=== Page 41 ===
Cost optimization design principles
• Implement Cloud Financial Management
Cost
• Adopt a consumption model
Optimization
pillar • Measure overall efficiency
• Stop spending money on undifferentiated heavy
lifting
• Analyze and attribute expenditure
Eliminate
unneeded
expense.
There are five design principles that can optimize costs:
• Implement Cloud Financial Management–To achieve financial success and accelerate business
value realization in the cloud, you need to invest in cloud financial management and cost
optimization. You need to build capability through knowledge building, programs, resources,
and processes to become a cost-efficient organization.
• Adopt a consumption model–Pay only for the computing resources that you require. Increase
or decrease usage depending on business requirements, not by using elaborate forecasting.
• Measure overall efficiency–Measure the business output of the workload and the costs that
are associated with delivering it. Use this measure to know the gains that you make from
increasing output and reducing costs.
• Stop spending money on undifferentiated heavy lifting –AWS does the heavy lifting of racking,
stacking, and powering servers, which meansthat you can focus on your customers and
business projects instead of the IT infrastructure.
• Analyze and attribute expenditure–The cloud makes it easier to accurately identify system
usage and costs, and attribute IT costs to individual workload owners. Having this capability
helps you measure return on investment (ROI) and gives workload owners an opportunity to
optimize their resources and reduce costs.
=== Page 42 ===
Cost optimization questions
Practice cloud financial management Cost-effective resources
• How do you implement cloud financial • How do you evaluate cost when you select
services?
management?
• How do you meet cost targets when you select
resource type, size, and number?
Expenditure and usage awareness
• How do you use pricing models to reduce cost?
• How do you govern usage? • How do you plan for data transfer changes?
• How do you monitor usage and cost?
• How do you decommission resources? Manage demand and supply resources
• How do you manage demand and supply
resources?
Optimize over time
• How do you evaluate new services?
The foundational questions for cost optimization fall under five best practice areas: practice cloud
financial management, expenditure and usage awareness, cost-effective resources, manage
demand and supply resources, and optimize over time.
Similar to the other pillars, there are tradeoffs to consider when evaluating cost. For example,
you may choose to prioritize for speed—going to market quickly, shipping new features, or simply
meeting a deadline—instead of investing in upfront cost optimization. As another example,
designing an application for a higher level of availability typically costs more. You should identify
your true application needs and use empirical data to inform your architectural design decisions.
Perform benchmarking to establish the most cost-optimal workload over time.
=== Page 43 ===
Activity breakout
Here is the entire AnyCompanyarchitecture for you to consult as you complete the activity. Refer
to the notes for the AnyCompanybackground and architecture slides to help you with this
exercise. You might also want to refer to the Appendix in the AWS Well-Architected Framework at
https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/architecture/AWS_Well-Architected_Framework.pdf.
1. Review the following three cost optimization questions from the AWS Well-Architected
Framework:
• COST 2: How do you govern usage?
• COST 6: How do you meet cost targets when you select resource type, size, and number?
• COST 7: How do you use pricing models to reduce cost?
2. For each Well-Architected Framework question, answer what is the current state of the
AnyCompanyarchitecture and what is the final state.
3. Agree on the top improvement that AnyCompanyshould make.
=== Page 44 ===
The AWS Well-Architected Tool
• Helps you review the state of your workloads and compares them to
the latest AWS architectural best practices
• Gives you access to knowledge and best practices used by AWS
architects, whenever you need it
• Delivers an action plan with step-by-step guidance on how to build
better workloads for the cloud
• Provides a consistent process for you to review and measure your
cloud architectures
The activity thatyou just completed is similar to how you would use the AWS Well-Architected
Tool.
The AWS Well-Architected Tool helps you review the state of your workloads and compare them
to the latest AWS architectural best practices. It gives you access to knowledge and best practices
used by AWS architects, whenever you need it.
This tool is available in the AWS Management Console. You define your workload and answer a
series of questions in the areas of operational excellence, security, reliability, performance
efficiency, and cost optimization (as defined in the AWS Well-Architected Framework). The AWS
Well-Architected Tool then delivers an action plan with step-by-step guidance on how to improve
your workload for the cloud.
The AWS Well-Architected Tool provides a consistent process for you to review and measure your
cloud architectures. You can use the results that the tool provides to identify next steps for
improvement, drive architectural decisions, and bring architecture considerations into your
corporate governance process.
=== Page 45 ===
Section 1 key • The AWS Well-Architected Framework provides a
consistent approach to evaluate cloud
takeaways
architectures and guidance to help implement
designs.
• The AWS Well-Architected Framework documents
a set of design principles and best practices that
enable you to understand if a specific architecture
aligns well with cloud best practices.
• The AWS Well-Architected Framework is
organized into six pillars.
• Each pillar includes its own set of design
principles and best practices.
Some keytakeaways from this section of the module include:
• The AWS Well-Architected Framework provides a consistent approach to evaluate cloud
architectures and guidance to help implement designs.
• The AWS Well-Architected Framework documents a set of design principles and best practices
that enable you to understand if a specific architecture aligns well with cloud best practices.
• The AWS Well-Architected Framework is organized into six pillars.
• Each pillar includes its own set of design principles and best practices.
=== Page 46 ===
Section 2: Reliability and
availability
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Section 2: Reliability and availability
=== Page 47 ===
“Everything fails, all the time.”
Werner Vogels, CTO, Amazon.com
In the words of Werner Vogels, Amazon’s CTO, “Everything fails, all the time.” One of the best
practices that is identified in the AWS Well-Architected Framework is to plan for failure (or
application or workload downtime). One way to do that is to architect your applications and
workloads to withstand failure. There are two important factors that cloud architects consider
when designing architectures to withstand failure: reliability and availability.
=== Page 48 ===
Reliability
• A measure of your system’s
ability to provide functionality
Car
when desired by the user.
• System includes all system
components: hardware,
firmware, and software. Brakes
• Probability that your entire System
system will function as Component Ignition
intended for a specified period.
Cooling System
• Mean time between failures Component
System
(MTBF) = total time in component
service/number of failures
System
Reliabilityis a measure of your system’s ability to provide functionality when desired by the user.
Because "everything fails, all the time," you should think of reliability in statistical terms.
Reliability is the probability that an entire system will function as intended for a specified period.
Note that a system includes all system components, such as hardware, firmware, and software.
Failure of system components impacts the availability of the system.
To understand reliability, it is helpful to consider the familiar example of a car. The car is the
system. Each of the car’s components (for example, cooling, ignition, and brakes) must work
together in order for the car to work properly. If you try to start the car and the ignition fails, you
cannot drive anywhere—the car is not available. If the ignition fails repeatedly, your car is not
considered reliable.
A common way to measure reliability is to use statistical measurements, such as Mean Time
Between Failures (MTBF). MTBF is the total time in service over the number of failures.
=== Page 49 ===
Understanding reliability metrics
System brought online
(system available)
Mean Time Between Failures
Mean Time to Failure
(MTBF = MTTF + MTTR)
(MTTF)
System System
(component) (component)
Mean Time to Repair
repaired fails
(MTTR)
Saythatyou have an application that you bring online Monday at noon. The application is said to
be available. It functions normally until it fails Friday at noon. Therefore, the time to failure (or
the length of time the application is available) is 96 hours. You spend from Friday at noon until
Monday at noon diagnosing why the application failed and repairing it, at which point you bring
the application back online. Therefore, the time to repair is 72 hours.
Then, it happens again: the application fails on Friday at noon, you spend from Friday at noon
until Monday at noon repairing it, and you bring it online on Monday at noon.
Say this failure-repair-restore cycle happens every week. You can now calculate the average of
these numbers. In this example, your mean time to failure (MTTF) is 96 hours, and your mean
time to repair (MTTR) is 72 hours. Your mean time between failures (MTBF) is 168 hours (or 1
week), which is the sum of MTTF and MTTR.
=== Page 50 ===
Availability
• Normal operation time / total time
• A percentage of uptime (for example, 99.9 percent) over time (for
example, 1 year)
• Number of 9s – Five 9s means 99.999 percent availability
As you just learned, failure of system components impacts the availability of the system.
Formally, availabilityis the percentage of time that a system is operating normally or correctly
performing the operations expected of it (or normal operation time over total time). Availability
is reduced anytime the application isn’t operating normally, including both scheduled and
unscheduled interruptions.
Availability is also defined as the percentage of uptime (that is, length of time that a system is
online between failures) over a period of time (commonly 1 year).
A common shorthand when referring to availability is number of 9s. For example, five 9s means
99.999percentavailability.
=== Page 51 ===
High availability
• System can withstand some measure of
degradation while still remaining available.
• Downtime is minimized.
• Minimal human intervention is required.
A highly availablesystem is one that can withstand some measure of degradation while still
remaining available. In a highly available system, downtime is minimized as much as possible and
minimal human intervention is required.
A highly available system can be viewed as a set of system-wide, shared resources that cooperate
to guarantee essential services. High availability combines software with open-standard hardware
to minimize downtime by quickly restoring essential services when a system, component, or
application fails. Services are restored rapidly, often in less than 1 minute.
=== Page 52 ===
Availability tiers
Availability requirements vary. The length of disruption that is acceptable depends on the type of
application. Here is a table of common application availability design goals and the maximum
length of disruption that can occur within a year while still meeting the goal. The table contains
examples of the types of applications that are common at each availability tier.
For accessibility:Availability tiers with max disruption per year and application categories. The
tiers range from availabilities of 99 percent to 99.999 percent. End of accessibility description.
=== Page 53 ===
Factors that influence availability
Fault tolerance Recoverability
• The built-in redundancy of an
• The process, policies, and
application's components and
procedures that are related to
its ability to remain
restoring service after a
operational.
catastrophic event.
Scalability
• The ability of an application to
accommodate increases in
capacity needs without
changing design.
Though events that might disrupt an application’s availability cannot always be predicted, you
can build availability into your architecture design. There are three factors that determine the
overall availability of your application:
• Fault tolerancerefers to the built-in redundancy of an application's components and the
ability of the application to remain operationaleven if some of its components fail. Fault
tolerance relies on specialized hardware to detect failure in a system component (such as a
processor, memory board, power supply, I/O subsystem, or storage subsystem) and
instantaneously switch to a redundant hardware component. The fault-tolerant model does
not address software failures, which are the most common reason for downtime.
• Scalabilityis the ability of your application to accommodate increases in capacity needs,
remain available, and perform within your required standards. It does not guarantee
availability, but it contributes to your application's availability.
• Recoverabilityis the ability to restore service quickly and without lost data if a disaster
makes your components unavailable, or it destroys data.
Keep in mind that improving availability usually leads to increased cost. When you consider
how to make your environment more available, it's important to balance the cost of the
improvement with the benefit to your users.
Do you want to ensure that your application is always alive or reachable, or do you want to
ensure that it is servicing requests within an acceptable level of performance?
=== Page 54 ===
Section 2 key • Reliability is a measure of your system’s ability to
provide functionality when desired by the user,
takeaways
and it can be measured in terms of MTBF.
• Availability is the percentage of time that a
system is operating normally or correctly
performing the operations expected of it (or
normal operation time over total time).
• Three factors that influence the availability of
your applications are fault tolerance, scalability,
and recoverability.
• You can design your workloads and applications
to be highly available, but there is a cost tradeoff
to consider.
Some keytakeaways from this section of the module include:
• Reliability is a measure of your system’s ability to provide functionality when desired by the
user, and it can be measured in terms of MTBF.
• Availability is the percentage of time that a system is operating normally or correctly
performing the operations expected of it (or normal operation time over total time).
• Three factors that influence the availability of your applications are fault tolerance, scalability,
and recoverability.
• You can design your workloads and applications to be highly available, but there is a cost
tradeoff to consider.
=== Page 55 ===
Section 3: AWS Trusted Advisor
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
Section 3: AWS Trusted Advisor
As you have learned so far, you can use the AWS Well-Architected Framework as you design your
architectures to understand potential risks in your architecture, identify areas that need
improvement, and drive architectural decisions. In this section, you will learn about AWS Trusted
Advisor, which is a tool that you can use to review your AWS environment as soon as you start
implementing your architectures.
=== Page 56 ===
AWS Trusted Advisor
• Online tool that provides real-time guidance to help you
provision your resources following AWS best practices.
• Looks at your entire AWS environment and gives you
AWS Trusted
Advisor real-time recommendations in five categories.
Cost Optimization Performance Security Fault Tolerance Service Limits
Potential monthly savings
AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that provides real-time guidance to help you provision
your resources following AWS best practices.
AWSTrusted Advisor looks at your entire AWS environment and gives you recommendations in
five categories:
• Cost Optimization–AWS Trusted Advisor looks at your resource use and makes
recommendations to help you optimize cost by eliminating unused and idle resources, or by
making commitments to reserved capacity.
• Performance–Improve the performance of your service by checking your service limits,
ensuring you take advantage of provisioned throughput, and monitoring for overutilized
instances.
• Security–Improve the security of your application by closing gaps, enabling various AWS
security features, and examining your permissions.
• Fault Tolerance–Increase the availability and redundancy of your AWS application by taking
advantage of automaticscaling, health checks, Multi-AZ deployments, and backup
capabilities.
• Service Limits–AWS Trusted Advisor checks for service usage that is more than 80percentof
the service limit. Values are based on a snapshot, so your current usage might differ. Limit
and usage data can take up to 24 hours to reflect any changes.
For a detailed description of the information that AWS Trusted Advisor provides, see AWS
Trusted Advisor Best Practice Checks at
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/trusted-advisor-check-reference.html.
=== Page 57 ===
Activity: Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations
You have a friend who used AWS Trusted Advisor for the first time. She is trying to interpret its
recommendations to improve her cloud environment and needs your help. This is her dashboard.
While everything looks OK in the cost optimization and service limit categories, you notice that
there are a few recommendations that you should review to help her improve her security,
performance, and fault tolerance.
Help your friend interpret the following recommendations.
=== Page 58 ===
Activity: Recommendation #1
MFA on Root Account
Description: Checks the root account and warns if multi-factor authentication (MFA) is not enabled. For
increased security, we recommend that you protect your account by using MFA, which requires a user to
enter a unique authentication code from their MFA hardware or virtual device when interacting with the
AWS console and associated websites.
Alert Criteria: MFA is not enabled on the root account.
Recommended Action: Log in to your root account and activate an MFA device.
For this recommendation, answer these questions:
• What is the status?
• What is the problem?
• What specific environment details are you given?
• What is the best practice?
• What is the recommended action?
=== Page 59 ===
Activity: Recommendation #2
IAM Password Policy
Description: Checks the password policy for your account and warns when a password policy is not enabled,
or if password content requirements have not been enabled. Password content requirements increase the
overall security of your AWS environment by enforcing the creation of strong user passwords. When you
create or change a password policy, the change is enforced immediately for new users but does not require
existing users to change their passwords.
Alert Criteria: A password policy is enabled, but at least one content requirement is not enabled.
Recommended Action: If some content requirements are not enabled, consider enabling them. If no
password policy is enabled, create and configure one. See Setting an Account Password Policy for IAM Users.
For this recommendation, answer these questions:
• What is the status?
• What is the problem?
• What specific environment details are you given?
• What is the best practice?
• What is the recommended action?
=== Page 60 ===
Activity: Recommendation #3
Security Groups –Unrestricted Access
Description: Checks security groups for rules that allow unrestricted access to a resource. Unrestricted
access increases opportunities for malicious activity (hacking, denial-of-service attacks, loss of data).
Alert Criteria: A security group rule has a source IP address with a /0 suffix for ports other than 25, 80,
or 443.)
Recommended Action: Restrict access to only those IP addresses that require it. To restrict access to a
specific IP address, set the suffix to /32 (for example, 192.0.2.10/32). Be sure to delete overly permissive
rules after creating rules that are more restrictive.
For this recommendation, answer these questions:
• What is the status?
• What is the problem?
• What specific environment details are you given?
• What is the best practice?
• What is the recommended action?
For accessibility:Security groups information including Region, security group name, security
group ID, protocol, port, status, and IP range from 2 sample security groups. The status of both is
red. End of accessibility description.
=== Page 61 ===
Activity: Recommendation #4
Amazon EBS Snapshots
Description: Checks the age of the snapshots for your Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon
EBS) volumes (available or in-use). Even though Amazon EBS volumes are replicated, failures
can occur. Snapshots are persisted to Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) for
durable storage and point-in-time recovery.
Alert Criteria:
Yellow: The most recent volume snapshot is between 7 and 30 days old.
Red: The most recent volume snapshot is more than 30 days old.
Red: The volume does not have a snapshot.
Recommended Action: Create weekly or monthly snapshots of your volumes
For this recommendation, answer these questions:
• What is the status?
• What is the problem?
• What specific environment details are you given?
• What is the best practice?
• What is the recommended action?
For accessibility:Amazon EBS volume information for Region us-east-1 including volume ID,
volume name, volume attachment, status (listed as red), and reason (listed as no snapshot). End
of accessibility description.
=== Page 62 ===
Activity: Recommendation #5
Amazon S3 Bucket Logging
Description: Checks the logging configuration of Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) buckets.
When server access logging is enabled, detailed access logs are delivered hourly to a bucket that you
choose. An access log record contains details about each request, such as the request type, the resources
specified in the request, and the time and date the request was processed. By default, bucket logging is
not enabled; you should enable logging if you want to perform security audits or learn more about users
and usage patterns.
Alert Criteria:
Yellow: The bucket does not have server access logging enabled.
Yellow: The target bucket permissions do not include the owner account. Trusted Advisor cannot check
it.
Recommended Action:
Enable bucket logging for most buckets.
If the target bucket permissions do not include the owner account and you want Trusted Advisor to
check the logging status, add the owner account as a grantee.
For this recommendation, answer these questions:
• What is the status?
• What is the problem?
• What specific environment details are you given?
• What is the best practice?
• What is the recommended action?
For accessibility:Amazon S3bucket logging information for Region us-east-2 including bucket
name, target exists (no), same owner (no), write enabled (no), and reason (logging not enabled).
End of accessibility description.
=== Page 63 ===
Section 3 key • AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that
provides real-time guidance to help you provision
takeaways
your resources by following AWS best practices.
• AWS Trusted Advisor looks at your entire AWS
environment and gives you real-time
recommendations in five categories.
• You can use AWS Trusted Advisor to help you
optimize your AWS environment as soon as you
start implementing your architecture designs.
Some keytakeaways from this section of the module include:
• AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that provides real-time guidance to help you provision
your resources by following AWS best practices.
• AWS Trusted Advisor looks at your entire AWS environment and gives you real-time
recommendations in five categories.
• You can use AWS Trusted Advisor to help you optimize your AWS environment as soon as you
start implementing your architecture designs.
=== Page 64 ===
Module wrap-up
Module 9: Cloud Architecture
It’s now time to review the module and wrap up the module with a knowledge check and
discussion of a practice certification exam question.
=== Page 65 ===
Module summary
In summary, in this module you learned how to:
• Describe the AWS Well-Architected Framework, including the six
pillars
• Identify the design principles of the AWS Well-Architected
Framework
• Explain the importance of reliability and high availability
• Identify how AWS Trusted Advisor helps customers
• Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations
In summary, in this module you learned how to:
• Describe the AWS Well-Architected Framework, including the six pillars
• Identify the design principles of the AWS Well-Architected Framework
• Explain the importance of reliability and high availability
• Identify how AWS Trusted Advisor helps customers
• Interpret AWS Trusted Advisor recommendations
=== Page 66 ===
Complete the knowledge check
Now, complete the knowledge check.
=== Page 67 ===
Sample exam question
A SysOpsengineer working at a company wants to protect their data in transit and at rest. What
services could they use to protect their data?
Choice Response
A Elastic Load Balancing
B Amazon Elastic Block Storage (Amazon EBS)
C Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
D All of the above
Look at the answer choices and rule them out based on the keywords.
=== Page 68 ===
Sample exam question answer
A SysOpsengineer working at a company wants to protect their data in transit and at rest. What
services could they use to protect their data?
The correct answer is D.
The keywords in the question are “protect their data in transit and at rest”.
The following are the keywords to recognize are: “protect their data in transit and at rest.”
The correct answer is D.
=== Page 69 ===
Additional resources
• AWS Well-Architected website:
https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/?wa-lens-
whitepapers.sort-by=item.additionalFields.sortDate&wa-lens-
whitepapers.sort-order=desc
• AWS Well-Architected Labs: https://wellarchitectedlabs.com/
• AWS Trusted Advisor Best Practice Checks:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/trusted-
advisor-check-reference.html
If you want to learn more about the topics covered in this module, you might find the following
additional resources helpful:
• AWS Well-Architected website: https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/well-architected/?wa-
lens-whitepapers.sort-by=item.additionalFields.sortDate&wa-lens-whitepapers.sort-
order=desc
• AWS Well-Architected Labs: https://wellarchitectedlabs.com/
• AWS Trusted Advisor Best Practice Checks:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awssupport/latest/user/trusted-advisor-check-reference.html.
=== Page 70 ===
Thank you
Thank you for completing this module.